.  CONDITIONS FOR WEAK COMPACTNESS OF SETS OF BOUNDED RADON MEASURES ON VARIOUS TOPOLOGICAL SPACES  V.K. Zakharov, T.V. Rodionov  The paper presents some Cb-weak compactness criterion of a set of positive bounded Radon measures for a Tychonoff space similar to the well-known Prokhorov criterion. Since for a general Hausdorff space the classical space Cb of bounded continuous functions can be trivial and not separate points and closed sets, the S-weak compactness criterion is presented for this case, where S is the new uniformly closed linear space of metasemicontinuous functions. These results are esentially based on the solution of the Riesz –Radon– Frechet problem of characterization of Radon integrals as linear functionals obtained by the authors earlier. Keywords: Radon measure, Prokhorov property, uniform tightness, weak compactness, Riesz representation theorem.  UDC 517.13, 510.67  SOME INDUCTIVE SEQUENCE OF MODELS OF GENERALIZED SECOND-ORDER DEDEKIND THEORY OF REAL NUMBERS  WITH EXPONENTIALLY INCREASING POWERS V.K. Zakharov1, T.V. Rodionov2  1 valeriy_zakharov@list.ru; Lomonosov Moscow State University 2 rodionovtv@mail.ru; Lomonosov Moscow State University  The paper is devoted to construction of some inductive sequence of models of the generalized second-order Dedekind theory of real numbers with exponentially increasing powers. These models are not isomorphic whereas all models of the standard second-order Dedekind theory are. The main idea in passing to generalized models is to consider instead of superstructures with the single common set-theoretical equality and the single common set-theoretical belonging superstructures with several generalized equalities and several generalized belongings for first and second orders. The basic tools for the presented construction are the infraproduct of collection of mathematical systems different from the factorized Loś ultraproduct and the corresponding generalized infrafiltration theorem.  Keywords: second-order language, generalized models, infraproduct, ultraproduct, nonstandard analysis.    156 МАТЕРИАЛЫ ШКОЛЫ-КОНФЕРЕНЦИИ  1. Introduction  It is well known that all standard models of the standard second-order Dedekind theory of real numbers are isomorphic (see, for example, [1, 7.2]). The paper is devoted to the exposition of some generalized second-order Dedekind theory of real numbers with non-isomorphic generalized models.  More precisely, the paper is devoted to construction of some inductive sequence R̂ei (1 É i Éω0) of models of the generalized second-order Dedekind theory of real numbers with exponentially increasing powers. Since the sequence R̂ei (1 É i < ω0) is non-limit (see part I of the Theorem in section 3), some limit generalized model R̂eω0 is constructed such that every R̂ei is a submodel of R̂eω0 (see part II of the Theorem). These generalized models are completely different from models of the non-standard first-order nonDedekind theory of real numbers presented in [2, 2.14] under the name of non-standard analysis.  The appropriate for these constructions second-order notions were introduced in papers [4,6] (see also [5, C.1-C.2]), namely: a generalized second-order signature Σg2 , a generalized language L(Σ  g 2 ) of the signature Σ  g 2 , a superstructure S  g 2 of the signature Σ  g 2 over a  set A, an interpretation (≡ amathematical system) U ≡ (A,Sg2 ) of the signatureΣ g 2 on the sup port A, an evaluation γ on the systemU of all variables of the signature Σg2 , and a generalized modelU for a set Φ of formulas of the language L(Σ  g 2 ).  The main idea in passing to generalized models is to refuse the consideration of superstructures with the single common set-theoretical equality = and with the single common set-theoretical belonging ∈ and to consider the superstructure Sg2 with several generalized equalities ≈first and ≈second and several generalized belongings ∈+first and ∈+second for first and second orders. This generalized superstructure Sg2 is the derivative object from some initial generalized second-order signature Σg2 containing, in addition to individual and predicative constants and variables, some symbols δτ of generalized equalities and some symbols ετ of generalized belongings for first-order types τ and second-order types τ≡ [τ0, . . . ,τk ].  Correspondingly, in the capacity of initial formulas of the language L(Σg2 ) the formulas of the following two forms are taken: the formula yσ δσ zσ and the formula (xτ00 , . . . , x  τk k  ) ετ u τ, where yσ and zσ are the variables of the first- or the second-order  type σ and xτi i  and uτ are the variables of the first-order types τi and the second-order type τ≡ [τ0, . . . ,τk ], respectively.  These atomic formulas are interpreted on an evaluated system (U ,γ) (with an evaluation γ of variables on U ) in the following generalized way: γ(yσ) ≈σ γ(zσ) and (γ(xτ00 ), . . . ,γ(x  τk k  )) ∈+τγ(uτ), where ≈σ is a generalized ratio of equality and ∈+τ is a generalized ratio of belonging. Generalized equalities and generalized belongings are connected with each other by the common initial principle of change of equals.  With respect to the signature Σg2 formulas ϕ in the language L(Σ g 2 ) are defined by  common induction, when we start from the above-mentioned atomic formulas. To give a semantics of the language L(Σg2 ) a satisfaction of a formula ϕ on a systemU  with respect to an evaluation of variables γ is defined according to the above-mentioned generalized interpretation of the atomic formulas.  The semantics for the language L(Σg2 ) differs both from the standard semantics    V.K. Zakharov, T.V. Rodionov 157  (see [2, Appendix] and [3, § 16]) and from the Henkin semantics (see [2, Appendix] and [3, § 21]), which restricts the range of values of the evaluation γ(xτ) for a variable xτ of a second-order type τ by some subset of the set P (τ(A)) of the terminal τ(A) of the system U ≡ (A,S).  2. The generalized second-order Dedekind theory of real numbers  Consider the first-order typeπ≡ 0, the second-order typesÅ≡ [π], ρ ≡ [π,π], andλ≡ [π,π,π] and the type domain Θ ≡ ΘgRe,2 ≡ {π,Å,ρ,λ} with the belonging type subdomain Θb ≡ {Å,ρ,λ}.  Put Ωπ ≡ 2, ΩÅ ≡ ∅, Ωρ ≡ 3, Ωλ ≡ 2, and consider the collections Σπc ≡ (σπω | ω ∈ Ωπ) = (σπ0 ,σπ1 ), ΣÅc ≡ (σÅω | ω ∈ΩÅ) =∅, Σ  ρ c ≡ (σρω | ω ∈Ωρ) = (σρ0 ,σ  ρ 1 ,σ  ρ 2 ), and Σ  λ c ≡ (σλω |  ω ∈Ωλ) = (σλ0 ,σλ1 ). They compose the signature of constants of the type domainΘ of the form Σc = (Στc |  τ ∈Θ) = ((σπ0 ,σπ1 ),∅, (σ ρ 0 ,σ  ρ 1 ,σ  ρ 2 ), (σ  λ 0 ,σ  λ 1 )) containing the objective first-order constants  σπ0 and σ π 1 for denoting the real numbers 0 (null) and 1 (unit), respectively, the predicate  second-order constants σρ0 , σ ρ 1 , and σ  ρ 2 for denoting the ratio of negation, the ratio of  inversion, and the ratio of order, respectively, and the predicate second-order constantsσλ0 and σλ1 for denoting the ratio of addition and the ratio of multiplication, respectively.  Further, along with σπ0 , σ π 1 , σ  ρ 0 , σ  ρ 1 , σ  ρ 2 , σ  λ 0 , and σ  λ 1 we shall simply write 0, 1, −, /,  É, +, and ·, respectively. Take the signature of the generalized equalities of the type domain Θ of the form  Σe ≡ (δτ | τ ∈Θ) = (δπ,δÅ,δρ,δλ) containing the first-order equality δπ, and the secondorder equalities δ[π], δ[π,π], and δ[π,π,π].  Take the signature of the generalized belongings of the type domain Θ of the form Σb ≡ (ετ | τ ∈Θb) = (εÅ,ερ,ελ).  Finally, take a denumerable set Σπv of objective variables x π, yπ, . . . of the first-order  type π and denumerable sets ΣÅv , Σ ρ v , and Σ  λ v of predicate variables u  Å, vÅ, . . ., uρ, vρ, . . ., and uλ, vλ, . . . of the second-order types Å, ρ, and λ, respectively. They form the signature Σv ≡ (Στv | τ ∈Θ) = (Σπv ,ΣÅv ,Σ  ρ v ,Σ  λ v ) of variables of the type domain Θ.  Consider the generalized signature ΣgRe,2 ≡ Σc |Σe |Σb|Σv and the corresponding language L(ΣgRe,2). Terms p, q,r, s, . . . of this language are constants and variables only; the atomic equality formulas have the forms qπ δπ rπ, qÅ δÅ r Å, qρ δρ r ρ, and qλ δλ r  λ. Respectively, the atomic belonging formulas have the forms qπ εÅ r Å, (pπ, qπ) ερ r ρ, and (pπ, qπ,rπ) ελ s  λ. The signatureΣgRe,2 gives the opportunity to define the language L(Σ  g Re,2) and to con struct the desired models of the generalized second-order theory of real numbers, but the absence of functional variables in this signature makes the writing of generalized axioms for this theory very unusual. For example,  A22 (the existence of Dedekind cuts). ∀uÅ, vÅ ((∃x (x εÅ uÅ)) ∧ (∃ y (y εÅ vÅ)) ∧ (∀z ((z εÅ uÅ)∨ (z εÅ vÅ)))∧ (∀x, y ((x εÅ uÅ)∧ (y εÅ vÅ) ⇒ x É y)) ⇒ (∃z ∀x, y ((x εÅ uÅ)∧ (y εÅ vÅ) ⇒ (x É z)∧ (z É y)))).  The corresponding theory determined by the language L(ΣgRe,2) and the set of proper axioms A1–A22, the set of equality axioms E1–E4 [5, C.1.3], and the set of extension   158 МАТЕРИАЛЫ ШКОЛЫ-КОНФЕРЕНЦИИ  ality properties PE1–PE3 [5, C.3.4] can be called the generalized second-order Dedekind theory of real numbers T h  g Re,2, where PE3: ∀uλ, vλ (uλδλvλ ⇔ ∀x, y, z ((x, y, z)ελuλ ⇔  (x, y, z)ελv λ)).  Consider the canonical set R of all real numbers constructed in some fixed set theory ST: NBG, ZF, or LTS (see, e. g., [5, 1.1, A.2, B.1]). For the set R and the signature ΣgRe,2 consider the corresponding superstructure SRe,2 ≡ (Sc ,Se ,Sb ,Sv ) of the signature ΣgRe,2. The system (R,SRe,2) of the signature Σ  g Re,2 can be called the canonical generalized second order Dedekind real axis in ST. It will be denoted by Reg2 .  3. The main theorem  Theorem.  (I) Let F be a fixed set. Then there exist some sequence (R̂i | i ∈ ω0) of sets R̂i , some sequence (Ŝi | i ∈ ω0) of superstructures Ŝi of the signature ΣgRe,2 over the sets R̂i , and some sequence (ui | i ∈ω0) of mappings ui : R̂i → R̂i+1 such that: (1) R̂e0 ≡ (R̂0, Ŝ0) ≡ (R,SRe,2); (2) every system R̂ei ≡ (R̂i , Ŝi ) of the signature ΣgRe,2 is a model for the theory T h  g Re,2;  (3) every mapping ui is an (≈π,i ,≈π,i+1)-injective homomorphism of the signatureΣgRe,2 from the system R̂ei into the system R̂ei+1;  (4) the image of the system R̂e i in the system R̂e i+1 respectively to the homomorphismui is a submodel of the model R̂ei+1;  (6) the support R̂i+1 of the system R̂ei+1 is the set R̂Fi ; (7) (ui p)( f ) = p for every p ∈ R̂i and every f ∈ F , i. e., ui p is the {p}-valued function  on F .  (II) There exists some superstructure Ŝω0 of the signature Σ g Re,2 over the set R̂ω0 ≡  ∏ (R̂i | i ∈  ω0) and some sequence of mappings wi : R̂i → R̂ω0 such that: (1) the system R̂eω0 ≡ (R̂ω0 , Ŝω0) of the signature Σ  g Re,2 is a model for the theory T h  g Re,2;  (2) every mappingwi is an (≈π,i ,≈π,ω0)-injective homomorphism of the signature Σ g Re,2  from the system R̂ei into the system R̂eω0; (3) the image of the system R̂ei in the system R̂eω0 respectively to the homomorphismwi  is a submodel of the model R̂eω0; (5) wi = wi+1 ◦ui for every i ∈ω0.  References  1. Feferman S. The number systems. Foundations of algebra and analysis. – Reading: Addison-Wesley Publ., 1963.  2. Mendelson E. Introduction to Mathematical Logic (4th ed.). – London: CRC, 1997.  3. Takeuti G. Proof theory. – Mineola: Dover Publications, 2013.    О.А. Иванова 159  4. Zakharov V. K. Compactness theorem for generalized second-order language // Contemporary problems of fund. and appl. mathematics. – Dolgoprudnii: MPhTI, 2008. – P. 11–31.  5. Zakharov V. K, Rodionov T. V. Sets, Functions, Measures. Volume I: Fundamentals of Set andNumber Theory (De Gruyter Stud. in Math., V. 68/2). – Berlin: de Gruyter, 2018.  6. Zakharov V. K., Yashin A. D. Compactness theorem for some generalized second-order language // J. Math. Research. – 2014. – V. 6, No. 3. – P. 21–38.  ИНДУКТИВНАЯ ПОСЛЕДОВАТЕЛЬНОСТЬ МОДЕЛЕЙ ОБОБЩЁННОЙ ДЕДЕКИНДОВОЙ ТЕОРИИ ДЕЙСТВИТЕЛЬНЫХ ЧИСЕЛ ВТОРОГО ПОРЯДКА С ЭКСПОНЕНЦИАЛЬНО  РАСТУЩИМИ МОЩНОСТЯМИ  В.К. Захаров, Т.В. Родионов  В работе строится индуктивная последовательностьмоделей обобщённой дедекиндовой второпорядковойтеории действительных чисел с экспоненциально растущимимощностями. Эти модели неизоморфны, в то время как все модели стандартной дедекиндовой теории действительных чисел изоморфны. Главная идея перехода к обобщённыммоделям состоит втом, чтобы вместо суперструктур с единственным теоретико-множественным равенством и единственнымтеоретико-множественным отношением принадлежности рассматривать суперструктуры с различными обобщёнными равенствами и различными обобщёнными отношениями принадлежности для первого и для второго порядков. Основными средствами для нашего построения служат инфрапроизведение коллекции математических систем, отличное от факторизованного ультрапроизведения Лося, и соответствующая обобщённая теорема инфрафильтрации. Ключевые слова: язык второго порядка, обобщённые модели, инфрапроизведение, ультрапроизведение, нестандартный анализ.  УДК 517.9  О НЕКЛАССИЧЕСКИХ СВЕРТКАХ О.А. Иванова1  1 neo_ivolga@mail.ru; Южный федеральный университет  Предлагается подход к введению умножения (свертки) в топологическом сопряженном к счетному индуктивному пределу весовых пространств Фреше целых функций одного комплексного переменного. Это умножение определяется с помощью операторов сдвига для оператора обобщенного обратного сдвига (оператора Поммье). Изучены свойства полученной таким образом алгебры аналитических функционалов.  Ключевые слова: свертка, алгебра аналитических функционалов, оператор обобщенного обратного сдвига.  Ниже идет речь об умножении в алгебре аналитических функционалов, отличном от стандартной свертки, задаваемой обычными сдвигами. Произведения подобного рода (например, свертка и произведение Дюамеля) исследуются в монографии И. Димовского [6], в работах М.Т. Караева [5], [7]. Рассматривается следующая ситуация. Пусть vn,k : C → R — непрерывные функции такие, что   