)  SLUMPING, SUPERPROPAGATION, ROTATION, FINGERING AND UPCONING IN TWO-PHASE  ABRUPT INTERFACE FLOWS  Sharp interfaces between fluids of different density and viscosity are common in models of sea water intrusion, remediation of soils contaminated by dense liquids, genesis and prospecting of oil-gas traps in hydrocarbon deposits, among others (e.g. [1]).  In terms of the Charny hydraulic model we examine the known and obtain new solutions to problems of dynamics of abrupt interfaces in porous layers. The general Charny PDE of nonlinear diffusion is reduced to a nonlinear ODE in cases of a stable finger, a travelingwave finger, and a rotating straight interface with explicit rigorous solutions to these equations. A peculiarity of the solutions is the degeneration of the governing equation (appearance of free surfaces). The finger possesses one degeneration point and extends infinitely upstream where flow of the moving phase is uniform. We analyze also superpropagation of an interface with two degeneration points in  243    case of periodic injection at a sinusoidal time variation of the incident seepage rate. The interface is analytically shown to advance deeper than it would at a constant rate drive. Similar superpropagation is illustrated by the Runge-Kutta integration of the Green-Ampt nonlinear ODE describing vertical infiltration from a ponded surface into a dry soil. We juxtapose our solutions with the Philip superelevation phenomenon in coastal aquifers (the Boussinesq equation) [2]. We quantify counter-slumping, i.e., propagation of one of the edges against the incident flow direction when the interface is sufficiently steep [3].  In terms of a full hydrodynamic model we apply the methods of complex analysis (conformal mappings of circular polygons in the hodograph plane onto the complex potential domain, the Signorini formula and its generalizations in the Dirichlet and mixed boundaryvalue problems)to study steady, 2-D interfaces. For a gas-water interface in a monocline dipping at an arbitrary angle, two regimes (contraction and expansion) are possible and explicit analytical solutions are derived in terms of hypergeometric functions. For a gas-oil trap the interface consists of two branches along which the isobaric condition and the condition of a linear increase of pressure with depth are reduced to a standard hodograph representation through two touching circles. For flow to a sink in a soil layer, which bottom is an impermeable horizontal rock humped by an impermeable but flexible lens containing a heavier immobile liquid a boundary value problem is solved in the class of functions with singularities at the transition points. In a vortex-generated flow [1], we prove that the interface is an optimal shape. The necessary and sufficient conditions of a unique global extremum are satisfied and both the criterion and the extremal (the Taylor-Saffman bubble) are presented in an explicit form.  This study was supported by Sultan Qaboos University, projects AGSWAT 9903 and AGR/99/13 and by the RFBR, grants No 9901-00364, No 99-01-00173, No 01-01-0888 and through the grant No 09-12/2000(F) of the Tatarstan Academy of Sciences.  R E F E R E N C E S 1. Strack, O. D. L. Groundwater Mechanics. – Prentice Hall,  244    Englewood Cliffs, 1989. 2. Philip, J. R. Periodic nonlinear diffusion: An integral relation  and its physical consequences. – 1973. – Australian J. Phys. – V. 26. – P. 513–519.  3. Huppert, H. E. and Woods, A. W. Gravity-driven flows in porous layers. – 1995. – J. Fluid Mech. – V. 292. – P. 55–69.  I. V. Konopleva, B. V. Loginov (Ul’yanovsk) INVARIANT REDUCTION  OF BRANCHING EQUATIONS  In real Banach spaces E1, E2 the following bifurcation point problem is considered:  B(x) = R(x, λ), R(0, 0) = 0, R(0, λ) = 0. (1)  Here B : D(B) ⊂ E1 → E2 is a closed linear Fredholm operator with dense in E1 domain D(B), N(B) = span{ϕ1, . . . , ϕn}, N∗(B) = span{ψ1, . . . , ψn},{γj}n1 ∈ E∗1 and {zj}n1 ∈ E2 are corresponding biorthogonal systems. The terminology and notation from [1-3] are used. It is supposed that (1) admits a l-parametrical continuos group G(a), a = (a1, . . . , al) ⊂ D ⊂ Rl, and a discrete group G̃1, i.e. it is invariant with respect to G(a) × G̃1 = G. The subspace E∞−n1 is invariant with respect to L(a).  Condition I. In coordinate representations in En1 = N(B) and N∗(B) the matrices representations Ag and Bg arise and the branching equation (BEq), corresponding to (1), is invariant with respect to Ag and Bg : t(Agτ, λ) = Bgt(τ, λ). The BEq is called potential if the equality f(τ, λ) = d gradτ U(τ, λ) holds with a nonsingular matrix d.  Theorem 1. The potential U(τ, λ) of the G-invariant BEq is an invariant of Ag if A′gdBg = d.  In fact, for τ̃ = Agτ we have DU(τ̃) =< ∇τ̃U(τ̃), dτ̃ >= =< ∇τU(τ), dτ >=< d−1t(τ), dτ > .  Condition II. Let L(a) be a l-parametric continuous group E1 acting l1-optimally in N(B). It means that there exists a basis {ϕi}n1  245   