... Solving the Copt of the actual problem of the theory of elasticity with suppressiveness in unilateral ties by iterations by gaps Smirnov M.S. CA11KTTersburg State Technical University Currently, to solve the flat task of the theory of elasticity with unilateral ties, methods based on the freshness of this constructively non-linear task for the task are physically not in the nun (contact-elements of the Goodman). At the same time, an alter is developing a native approach based on the information of this task to the task of finding the extreme value of the full energy of the SIS topic. This approach is based on a more stringent setting and in a number of servants allows you to get a solution. Better corresponding to the physical sense. And also turns out to be more convenient in solving spatial problems. In this case, the existence of local suppleness in one -sided ties, that is, the presence along the sides of the seam of a thin layer. having suppletedness both in normal and in the regard to the direction. It can be taken into account when solving the problem by the method of finite elements can be introduced by additional elements or nodes. But this is a definite degree of mustache: the southern practical implementation of calculations. To solve this problem, without the introduction of additional elements or nodes, it is prejudice to build an iterative process, at each step of which the so -called asymptotic task is solved. The boundary conditions are placed in it. The corresponding ones are not smooth, but my imagination is fine (a toe; sing) the shape of the surface of the side of the seam with the teeth of a limited shape (Fig. 1). On each edge of such a tooth, grace of the same conditions of ideal one -sided connections (ties without friction) are placed. This problem can be solved on the basis of the method of finite elements by finding the extreme value of the full energy of the system when imposing restrictions in the form of inequalities on moving points on the surface of the seam [1]. It can be shown that when the side faces are tilted to the real surface of the seam at an angle RP = TGF, where F is the friction coefficient in the seam. and choosing certain gap values ​​solution asymptothych 1.18