. The flooding of bubbles with an inanimate resincence in the cell of the Hele show V.M. Tents, S.S. Kalganov, I.V. Semenova IPM RAS .. RSU 'Oil and Gas named after THEM. Gubkina, g. Moscow E-mail: SK@I $ S. R and a numerically analytical solution to the problem of the back of the bubble of the unprofitable fluid in the HPS-show, filled with a non-linear (in the particular case, Bingamovskaya), is given. The shape of the bubble boundaries, the shape and regulation of the stagnant zone are found. As shown in [1], this task does not lead to the classical task of the saffman-tilor. The solution algorithm is based on the transition to alternating Godograph, while the course of the current is displayed in a well -known area with a curved row. Decisions are presented for two laws of resistance to the steppe law and the law with the maximum pressure gradient. The solutions were built by two numerically analytical methods that give consistent results - by the method of final times and the method of jacking when representing a solution to a number of 28 Fourier according to its own ~ functions expressed through the solution of a hypergeometric equation. Examples of calculations and anapis in; the prevention of nonlinearity on the shape of the bubble. In the case of the NEULOUNT Law of Resistance, the results coincide with the resolution of the Suffman-Tylor [2). Literature 1. Alexandrou A. N., Entov \ t. M. OP The Ste.ady-State Advancement O} 'Fingers and Hyle-Shaw Cell Filled and Non-Ncwtopian Fiuid // Euro. J. of Arr. Math. - V. 8. - R. 73-87. 2. Saffman R. G “Taylor G. I. And Note OP The Motion of IIs in A Hele-Shaw Cell and Porous Medium // Q. J. Mech. Appl. Math. \ '. 12.- R. 265-279. Direction of the initial growth of crack From the top of Kasp with a semi -infinite neckline V.V. Ermolaev, L.V. Sinyushin to the aza certain states, the ERE ER SI TET Tasks of finding the direction of the beginning: 1 increase of the crack from the top of the caspa is solved on the basis of the hypothesis: "The initial distribution of the tresh The planes for which the normal torn voltages IJ (3 have: .1Aximal value of the intensity coefficient "[1]. Thus, if Z0 is the top of the caspa, and a :::: ((j) / ji z - zoi, z - - z - + z0, where /3 = arg (z - z0), then to determine the direction.