The IITIONTICTION OF THE PARTS FELATION DREEMENTS During Aerozol Aspiration in a Slick Samulge M.V. Vanyunin, Sh.Kh. Zaripov, E.V. Skvortsov Research Institute of .wathematics and Furs. N.G. Chebotareva Kara11skogp at the University of E-mail at the University of Summary: Shami 1: •ipm•@ksu.111 A traditional approach to determining the aspiration coefficient during the sampling of aerosol into the measuring device is based on the limiting trajectories. The initial coordinates of the maximum tract of the former tract, separating the stream of aspirated particles from particles passing past the sampler, allow you to calculate the coefficient of the AC piration. At the same time, along with the aspiration coefficient, character) the ratio of the concentration of particles inside and far from the device, it seems important to find the distribution of the concentration of particles in the cross section of the input opening of the sample. In the work of the races, the task of aspiration of the aerosol into the gap between the two plate of us is watched. To analyze the fields of particle concentrations in the surroundings of the sample of the selection and in the input cross section, the equations of the particles of particles are on the equations for concentration along the trajectory [1]. In the proximity of the non -disclosure potential course of the inconspicuous bone, the method of complex analysis was found analytical expressed for the field of speeds of the supporting environment. The resulting solution is used in the yupery of the equations of the movement of particles and equations for concentration. Particles of particle concentrations for once: shch stroke numbers and at once: a row degree of non -uzokinetics. The work is supported by the Russian Federation (project 99-01-00169) and the ANT R&D Foundation. Literature 1. Osiptsov A.N. Modified Lagrangian Method/Or Calciling the Partic/E (.'oncentration in dusty-cias f/ows with lNTERSECTING PARTILENTENES/I Third Intimate Conference OP MULTIPHEPHAP OP MULTIPHEPH