. Modification of the multi-section method for solving the convection-disengage problem with a small parameter of 1 E.M. Andreeva, G.V. Muratova Rostov State University, Rostov-on-Don Introduction Mathematical Modeling of the Convection-Diffusion process is widely used in solving many scientific and engineering problems. There are a large number of specific naturals 1 work performed with the financial support of the RFFI, project N 00-01 00011 133 Modification of the multi-section method. . . the processes and phenomena described by the equation of convection of diulfusion: the spread of pollution in reservoirs and atmosphere, the movement of groundwater, the tasks of magnetic hydrodynamics, etc. In cases where the convection process is predominant, the solution of the problem is difficult, this is explained by the presence of a small parameter with an older derivative [1 ]. 1 The setting of the problem is considered the stationary task of convection-disengation:-1 pE ∆U + 1 2 (p (x, y) ∂u (x, y) ∂x + q (x, y) ∂u (x, y) ∂y + ∂y + + ∂p (x, y) u (x, y) ∂x + ∂q (x, y) u (x, y) ∂y) = f (x, y), (1.1) u (x, y) | ∂d = g (x, y). It is required to find a solution to the problem in the region = [0, 1] × [0, 1]. Equation (1.1) contains a small parameter for senior derivatives. Variable coefficients during the first derivatives determine the speed of the medium, ~ v = (p (x, y), q (x, y)) - the vector of the speed of the medium. We limit ourselves to the consideration of the movement of inextricable inconspicuous fluid, for which DIV ~ V = 0. For the approximation of the continuous task, we use the final method with the central-strife approximation of the first derivatives. As a result, the system of linear algebraic equations AY = F. (1.2) Matrix A can be represented in the form of A = A0 + A1, where A0 = (A + A ∗) /2 is the symmetrical part of the matrix A, A1 = (A --A ∗ ) /2 - the oblique part. To solve problems with a small parameter with a senior derivative, we use a triangular oblique method (TCM). It does not require diagonal predominance in the matrix A, which is achieved using the special choice of the operator b: b yn +1 - yn τ +ayn = f (1.3) 134 EM Andreeva, G.V. Muratova b = e + 2τkl or b = e + 2τku, where τ is the scalar parameter, kl and ku - respectively, the lower and upper triangular parts of the oblique matrix A1. This method is proposed by L.A. Krukikhom [2]. Theoretical studies were conducted and the convergence of this method was proved. It is used as a smoothing in the multi -section method (MGM). 2 The multi-section method for the tasks of convection-disjusion with the predominant convection of the algorithmic basis of the multi-section method is two techniques [3]. The first of them consists in the sequential solving of the net tasks similar to the initial problem, but solved on larger nets. The solution process begins with the rude grid, where the solution can be implemented quite economically. Then the resulting solution is interphed on a smaller grid and is used as an initial approximation in any iteration process. As a result, it requires significantly less iterations to bring accuracy to the required limits. The second reception was put forward in the work of the r.p. Fedorenko [4]. It is based on the rapid convergence of some iterative processes for high -frequency harmonics, which allows for several iterations to significantly suppress their contribution to the error. Low -frequency harmonics converge much more slowly and therefore will make up the overwhelming part of the error. As a result, it becomes some smoothly changing grid function, for which you can write out a system of mesh equations with non -wax on the right side. This system can be solved and a mistake, but this path is quite laborious. Instead, a differential task with a fairly smooth, smooth solution is put in line for error. On this differential task, a system on a larger grid is again built (for example, 2 or 3 times larger). Such a system can be solved more economically, since the number of unknown and equations is reduced. Due to this smoothness, its decision will be well closer to the Ice. 135 modification of the multi -section method. . . A mistake on this grid. It is interphed on a smaller grid. Due to the smooth change, the error will be found with a sufficiently high accuracy. The solution of the grid problem on the grid is twice or three times larger than a time -consuming problem, so its solution can be carried out approximately using the described technique of the transition to a larger net. As a result, this technique of lowering the dimension can be used until we move on to the task on the rude grid, on which you can quickly make a solution with a direct method. Thus, one iteration of the multi -section method includes the four most important stages: smoothing, restriction, continuation and correction. The role of the smooter uses a triangular oblique method (TCM), restriction and continuation are organized by special procedures that use a 9-point template [5]. Calculations cease to reach the specified accuracy ε. Before