Implicable diverse schemes for the non -stationary movement of viscous gas 1 A.V. Popov Moscow State University. M.V. Lomonosov carried out a construction and study of the accuracy of implicitly finished schemes for non-stationary movement of viscous gas. Cases of one and two spatial variables are considered. In the two -dimensional case, the constructed different scheme is economical, which is achieved through the use of splitting operators on the upper time layer. The study of accuracy is carried out on the example of the simplest model tasks: the equations of transfer with a variable coefficient and the nonlinear equation of the Burgers, and then the results are summarized. The effect of errors of rounding of arithmetic operations on the accuracy of a variety solution has been investigated. 1 Introduction Construction and analysis of variable schemes (p.) For systems of gas dynamics equations is of significant practical and theoretical interest [3], [24], [26], [27], [28], [29]. However, the issues of the correctness of the r. with. And the assessments of their errors in the initial nonlinear setting for multidimensional tasks are still difficult to solve. Consider the system of equations describing the non -stationary movement of viscous barotropic gas: ∂ρ ∂t + div (ρu) = 0, ρ [∂u ∂t + (u, ∇) u] + ∇p = lu + ρf, p = p (ρ) , (1.1) 1 work was carried out with the financial support of the RFFIF, the project N 99-01 01146 5 Enough variable schemes. . . where L is a linear elliptical operator: lu ≡ div (µ∇u) + 1 3 ∇ (µdiv u). Above, through µ, the gas viscosity coefficient is indicated, which we will consider for the simplicity of presentation of a well -known positive constant. Unknown functions (density ρ and speed vector U) are the functions of Euler variables (t, x) ∈ Q = [0, t] × ω. The equations include two more well -known functions: gas pressure p, depending on the density, and the vector of external forces F, which is the function of Euler variables. Note that the condition of the gas barotropicity is imposed to reduce calculations. All methods presented further without significant complications are transferred in case of thermal pipeline gas. Complete the system (1.1) with the initial and boundary conditions: (ρ, u) | t = 0 = (ρ0, u0), x ∈ ω, u (t, x) = 0, (t, x) ∈ [0, t] × ∂ω. (1.2) Currently, the theorem on the existence and uniqueness of the solution of the problem (1.1) - (1.2) as a whole by time is proved only in the case of one spatial variable. This is due to the fact that in one case, the system of equations (1.1), when switching to Lagrange mass variable, is recorded in a convenient for study relatively compact form. In a multidimensional case, the transition to these variables does not give such advantages, and only the local permissibility theorems are still known. A review of the results on the quality theory of the system (1.1) can be found in [4]. In the different case, as well as in differential, serious advancements in theory were obtained in the case of one spatial variable, where the river was built and investigated as a whole in time. with. For the system (1.1), recorded in laragan mass variables [2]. In a multidimensional case, work should be highlighted [14], in which the original weakly sustainable 6 A.V. Popov Chuva River. with. Among the numerous works devoted to modeling the currents of viscous gas, we note the work [13]. It analyzes the relationship between the solutions obtained using kinetically-composed variable schemes, and by the solution of the equations of Nesya-Koks for the currents of the viscous compressed gas. In this paper, implicit two -layer r. with. For the task (1.1) - (1.2) in the case of one and two spatial variables [20], [21]. To calculate the solution on the N-M temporary step, it is necessary to solve several systems of linear algebraic equations, the solution of which exists and the only one until the values ​​of the net function H, which approaches the function of the density ρ, remain positive. The possibility of fulfilling this condition when choosing steps of the grid is quite small from the positive values ​​of the function ρ and the proven assessment for the difference between the function of and the projection on the mesh of the function ρ. Built r. with. economical. By efficiency, this refers to the following. Firstly, p. with. It must be unconditionally stable. Secondly, to calculate the decision, it is required to perform the number of arithmetic operations directly proportional to the number of unknown. In the two -dimensional case, the last condition is ensured by the use of splitting operators on the upper time layer. For the r. with. By the method of energy inequalities, estimates of the error of numerical integration have been proved. In particular, the convergence of the river follows from these assessments. with. in layer -in -law norms W 12, h. Applied method of research p. with. It is significantly based on the assumption of the existence and unity of the smooth accurate solution of the problem (1.1) - (1.2). This method of studying the accuracy of different methods is set forth in the monograph [8] on the example of an ode. The main idea of ​​the evidence is that the difference between the variety solution and the projection on the grid of the exact solution of the differential problem n