. . . Calculation of the stationary state of the gas discharge. Hybrid model O.V. Datsyuk, S.E. Krivonosov, M.F. Sam, G.N. Tolmachev Rostov State University, G. Rostov-on-Don In recent years, hybrid models have been widely used to describe processes in various areas of plasma physics. Such models were developed in recent work on the study of gas discharges [1], microding in plasma displays [2], to describe the process of plasma spraying of films [3]. All these models are based on the same system of equations. In this work, the task of calculating the electrical properties of a smoldering discharge in poorly ionized gas is considered. The studied system is a glass tube filled with low -pressure inert gas, with round electrodes sealed on ends. The calculation is carried out to find the distribution of densities of electrons, ions and electric field (or potential), which are the functions of two spatial coordinates (taking into account the cylindrical symmetry of the system) and time. The solution for the spatial and temporary dependence of these three variables allows you to obtain all the electrical properties of the discharge. The processes associated with the excitation of neutral atoms and changes in gas temperature are not considered in this work. 1 Hydrodynamic discharge model Typical discharge model includes the equivalent equations, drifting-dipuse equations, balance sheet equation and Poisson equation for an electric field. The density of electrons and ions as a functions of time and space are from the first few moments of the Boltzmann equation. For each type of particle P, the Equivalent of the Incomplete has the form: 172 O.V. Datsyuk, S.E. Krivonosov, M.F. Sam, G.N. Tolmachev ∂np ∂t + o · γp = SP, (1.1) where NP is the density of particles, γP - the stream and SP is the source of particles. The stream is determined by the second moment of the Bolzman equation, which is usually written in drifting-dipuse approximation γp = sign (qp) µpenp −dponp. (1.2) Here E is an electric field, QP is a particle charge, µP - mobility, DP is a diffusion coefficient. The first term on the right side gives a stream under the influence of an electric field (drift), and the second represents a stream due to a concentration gradient (diffusion). The electric field depends on the density of the charge distribution in accordance with the Poisson equation O · (εe) = ρ, (1.3) where ε is dielectric permeability, and ρ is a complete charge density: ρ = ∑ p qpnp (1.4) for solving transport equations ( 1.1) - (1.2) Knowledge of the transport coefficients µP and DP is required. In general, these variables depend on the energy spectrum of particles. In practice, various assumptions are made to calculate them. Most often, the approximation of the local field is used [4]. Then these coefficients are considered as the functions of an electric field: µP = µp (e), dp = dp (e). (1.5) The values ​​of these coefficients can be obtained on the basis of classical theories and experimental measurements. The right part of the equation (1.1) is the functions of particle sources that arise as a result of various reactions in plasma. In this work, only the ionization processes are considered as a result of collisions of electrons with neutral atoms. To find SP values, clarification modeling is used by Monte Carlo. 173 Calculation of the stationary state of the gas discharge. . . 2 Modeling Monte-Carlo Monte Carlo (MK) method is widely used in solving the Boltzmann equation in order to obtain the distribution function, transfer coefficients, as well as the function of sources. The simplest MK methods model the movement of particles with constant spatial ∆x or temporal ∆t steps. Let Pi (ε) - the probability that a particle with energy ε will experience a collision between points XI and XI + 1 = XI + ∆X (or between the moments of time Ti and Ti + 1 = Ti + ∆T) is known at each point. Then, at each point XI (or at each time TI), a random number η1 (between 0 and 1) is selected, and if η1 <pi, then a collision is recorded, if η1> pi, then the step is repeated. In a more effective method from a computational point of view, namely, the method of “zero” clashes, the characteristic time τ = 1/νmax is determined between the clashes, where the νmax is the maximum frequency of clashes in the simulated region. A random number η1 is selected, and the particle moves one step of time ∆t = τ ln (η1). Then the second random number η2 is selected, and if η2 <p (τ) - local probability of a collision, then a collision occurs. Case η2> p (τ) means “zero” clash, that is, the state of the particle does not change. The effectiveness of the method of zero clashes is achieved due to the fact that it avoids explicit calculation of the integral along the trajectory. A similar approach in which the particles advance at a distance of ∆x = −λmin ln (η1), where λmin is the minimum length of the free run is called the “pseudo -resistance” method. MK methods are especially effective in modeling in about