. Abstract theory of close methods of solving linear problems 1 NB Pletshchinsky Kazan State University in the lecture discusses the main provisions of abstract theory of approximate methods for solving linear operator equations, within the framework of which the theoretical justification of various methods of numerical solutions of boundary problems 1 work was supported by the R&D Foundation of the Republic of Tatarstan 55 Abstract theory of close methods. . . For differential equations, integral equations and a number of other linear tasks. Examples are considered. In the abstract theory of approximate methods of solving linear operator equations based on ideas and methods of functional analysis, two main directions can be distinguished. In the general theory of close methods of L.V. Kantorovich [1], [2] and its version proposed by B.G. Gabdulkhaev [3], the main attention is paid to the conditions under which the permissive equation is permissible from the resolution of the exact equation. This approach is most convenient to use in the theoretical substantiation of numerical methods for solving integral equations. Another direction arose in the study of variable schemes for differential equations, here the concept of stability of the sequence of operators that approximate a given operator is significantly used here (see, for example, [4]). Variable schemes, close methods of the Galerkin type and some other tasks are considered from a common point of view in the theory of abstract close circuits of V.A. Trenogin [5], ch. VII. Some statements of the general theory of close methods and theory of abstract close circuits are clarified and supplemented in the works [6], [7]. We also note the book of M.A. Krasnoselsky, G.M. Vainikko, P.P. Zabreiko, Ya.B. Rutitsky and V.Ya. Stutsenko [8], in which close methods of solving linear and nonlinear operator equations were investigated. 1 Operators of approximation and interpolations, let X, Y - linear normalized spaces, a: x → y is a linear operator (determined on a linear diversity in X, additive and homogeneous), Ax = Y, X ∈ X, Y ∈ Y (1) - A linear operator equation, which will be called an accurate equation. The close method of solving the equation (1) is as follows. We choose linear normalized spaces X, Y and linear operator A: X → Y, approximir 56 NB Poleshniye accurate. According to the exact equation, we construct an approximating equation Ax = Y, X ∈ X, Y ∈ Y, (2) here the element Y is selected according to the element Y. We find the solution x ∈ X of this equation and the corresponding X element X̃ ∈ X is the approximate solution of the equation (1). Recall some information from the theory of linear operators and linear equations. Let D (A) and R (A) - area of ​​determination and area of ​​the values ​​of the operator, n (a) = {x ∈ D (A) | AX = 0} - many zeros (nucleus) of the operator A. Consider the equation (1). Three situations are possible: either the equation has no solutions, or the solution of the equation exists and the only one, or the equation has a solution, but not the only one. It is clear that the solution of equation (1) exists and only when y ∈ R (A). Describe the set of R (A) for this operator A and formulate the necessary and sufficient conditions for the resolution of equation (1) - equivalent tasks. Equation (1) can only have one solution and only when n (a) = {0}. In this and only in this case, there is a left reverse to A Operator A -1L. The left reverse operator is determined unambiguously, it will certainly be linear. Since each element from R (A) can be made in accordance with one of the elements D (A), the right reverse to A operator A -1R on R (A) always exists, but in the general case it is non -linear. When the right reverse to a the operator is determined throughout the entire space Y, equation (1) is resolved with any right side. Let the linear operators TX: X → X and SX: X → X establish a correspondence between elements of accurate and approximating spaces, and txsx = IX. (3) This means that the SX operator has the left reverse, i.e. E.N (SX) = {0}, and the TX operator has the right reverse, that is, r (tx) = x. Similarly, even the linear operators Ty : Y → Y and SY: Y → Y are such that TY SY = IY. (4) 57 Abstract theory of close methods. . . We will call TX and TY operators of approximation, and SX and SY - interpolation operators. We assume that D (tx) = x, d (sx) = x, d (ty) = y, d (sy) = y. A simple example: if x is the space of functions, then x = txx is a vector of function of function X (·) in nodes and x̃ = sxx - interpolating Polin. SXTX and SY TY operators (3) and (4) are projectors from X to X̃ and from Y to ỹ, respectively, (SXTX) 2 = SXTX and (SY TY) 2 = SY TY. The space x all the better approximates the space X, the closer the SXTX operator to the identical operator IX. If SXTX = IX, then a mutual-uniform correspondence is established between the elements of spaces X and X. To exclude this case, we will assume that the sets x̃ = sx (x) and ỹ = sy (y) are their own subspace of spaces X and Y