The course of the Chel show in the limited area 1 1. Introduction in this work considers the task of the course of the CHEL-Show in the limited area (cell) ω. This course simulates, for example, pressing the polymer into a narrow gap located between two parallel plates. Suppose that the polymer is introduced under some constant pressure through the rectangular hole at the end of the channel. Let the channel’s projection also be a flat figure consisting of an AD rectilinear segment (projection of the inlet), DC and AB segments perpendicular to it, as well as a curved area corresponding to the opposite end of the canal. Consider the case when the fluid (polymer) reaches part of the BC border. Thus, part of the border of the flow (moving front) remains free and, generally speaking, incoherent. The task is to describe the dynamics of changing the area ωt occupied by the liquid. In the situation under consideration, this is equivalent to a description of the dynamics of the free part ∂ ω0, t borders ωt. The resolution of this task is significantly dependent on the geometry of BC (see, for example, [9]). Therefore, below we are limited to considering a special case when at some point of time t = t0 the free part of the border ∂ ω0, t consists of a finite number component, the number of which remains unchanged for some time (without limiting the community, it can be considered that t0 = 0) . 1 is connected by Leonid Aleksandrovich Aksentiev in connection with his 70th anniversary 113 The study of such tasks has more than a hundred-year history. In 1898, the British engineer of the Hele show [17] described the experiment conducted by him with a liquid injected into a narrow gap between two parallel plates. In 1948, Yu.P. Vinogradov and P.P. Kufarev [6] proposed a comprehensive-analytical approach to the study of the dynamics of such processes (called the currents of the CHL-Show). This method was rejected in 1972 by Richardson [15]. Description of the laws of dynamics, discussion of the physical essence of the task, as well as the transition from physical model to mathematical were given to Gustafson in [4]. They also propose the concept of weak solutions to the problem of the hele show (see [5]). Since the task of a chele show in the general case does not allow solutions in a closed form, it seems important to describe model private cases of solving a problem that could serve trial to verify certain theoretical constructions. For the first time, the exact solution of the problem of the lene show was proposed by a semi-barin-button in [12] (see also [18], [19]). The situation under consideration is close to the work being studied [3]. Partially, we continue the studies that have begun in [6], and in the theoretical part we follow the work [13], in which the task of local solutions for the movements of the Heleshow is reduced to the abstract task of Koshi-Kovalevskaya, studied using the version of the NIrenberg-Nishida theorem . This work is organized as follows. Section 2 is devoted to the exact description of the physical model and the transition to the mathematical model as part of the complex-analytical approach of Vinogradov-Kufarev. Section 3 discusses the structure of the mathematical model of the problem. The search for local solutions is reduced to the consistent consideration of a series of auxiliary regional tasks of Riman-Gilbert with explosive coefficients and the abstract task of Koshi-Kovalevskaya. This set of tasks is investigated in section 4 on the basis of the methods proposed in [6] and [13], [14]. A special banakh space of analytical functions is introduced and its properties are studied, as well as the action in this space of operators describing the solution of these mathematical problems. The local existence of a classic solution to the problem of the course of the CHEL-Show in a limited area has been proven. 2. The description of the model will give a more accurate description of the physical model mentioned above. We assume that the height of the canal (cells of the chela show), into which the liquid is injected, is negligible in comparison with the linear dimensions of the projection, and the channel itself has a cylindrical structure, that is, its side walls are parallel to the direction, the orthogonal plane of the projection. In this case, one can represent the corresponding mathematical ratios in “purely” 114 flat formulation (see, for example, [4]), which we will follow below. Suppose that an inconsistent liquid (polymer) is injected through a sparns of a moisture segment AD under constant pressure P0 into a limited cell of a chele show (flat area ω). Suppose that at the time T, the fluid occupies the ωt area, and the remaining part of the cell occupies the air displaced by the liquid without resistance. If the initial direction of the current is parallel to the walls of AB and DC cells, it is natural to assume that AB and DC are current lines. Consider the stream at the moment when it reached the opposite wall of the canal, namely, met with it along the final number of arcs (αk, βk), k = 1,. . . , n. We assume that having reached the opposite wall, the liquid continues to flow along it, that is, the arcs (αk, βk) are also parts of the current line. Finally, let's put it