) Scientific seminar in the geometric theory of functions: the main results of the last two decades in 2002 have been 40 years since the founding of a scientific seminar in the geometric theory of the functions of a complex alternating at Kazan State University (KSU). The seminar combines mathematicians developing the problems of the geometric theory of the functions of complex alternating, direct and reverse marginal tasks for analytical functions and their applications in the mechanics of solid media. It was created in 1962 as an optional student seminar, and later became a creative association of mathematicians from various universities of Kazan. The seminar first acted at the department of differential equations, and from 1978 to the present works at the department of mathematical analysis of the mechanical and mathematics faculty of KSU; His permanent leader is the Honored Worker of Science of the Republic of Tatarstan, Doctor of Physical and Mathematical Sciences, Professor L.A. Aksentiev. Through its participants, the seminar has always actively interacted with other scientific groups, subsidiaries in relation to the city seminar “Regional tasks and their applications”; The leaders of the latter for many years have been Professor M.T. Juzhin, G.G. Tumashev and L.I. Chibrikova. So, F.G. Avhadiev, A.M. Elizarov and S.R. Nasyrov were permanent active participants in the seminar in the departure of the regional tasks of the Research Institute of Mathematics and Mechanics (NIMM) named after N.G. Chebotarev KSU, led by Professor N.B. Ilyinsky. Professor R.B. Salimov (Kazan State Architectural and Construction Academy) and his students (V.V. Seleznev, M.L. Slavutin, E.V. Strezhnev, N.K. Tuktamyshev and others) repeatedly performed at the seminar of L.A. Aksentieva. In the NIMM, a seminar works under the leadership of F.G. Avhadiev. A number of reports and dissertation studies were discussed at joint meetings of two seminars. The seminar contributed to the creation of a scientific team, which is engaged in research on comprehensive analysis and its applications. Today, the Kazan part of this team is concentrated mainly in universities: Professor L.A. Aksentiev, F.G. Avhadiev, A.M. Elizarov and S.R. Nasrov, Associate Professors N.P. Abubakirov, A.V. Kazantsev, I.R. Nezhmetdinov and E.A. Shirokova, senior researchers I.R. Kayumov, R.G. Salakhudinov, graduate students and students at KSU; Associate Professors S.R. Mironova, S.B. Shabalina, senior teacher S.G. Amirkhanova and assistant G.G. Bilchenko - in the technical university 7 version, Professor B.A. Katz, Associate Professors M.L. Slavutin and P.L. Shabalin-at the Architectural and Construction Academy, Professor L.N. Zhurbenko and Associate Professor T.A. LAPLOVOVA - at the University of Technology, Professor M.I. Kinder - at the pedagogical university, associate professors V.N. Gaiduk and F.Kh. Arslanov - at the University of Energy, professor F.N. Garifyanov - at the Agricultural Academy, senior teacher O.V. Zakharov - at the Military Artillery University. A candidate of physical and mathematical sciences M.Kh. Brenerman, a candidate of physical and mathematical sciences A.V. Kiselev. Many participants in the seminar work in other cities of Russia and neighboring abroad - these are the associate professors of R.G. Avhadiev, M.N. Zhuravlev, V.P. Mikka and N.I. Popov (Yoshkar-Ola), N.A. Gubaidullina (Tyumen), P.M. Zinoviev (Saratov), ​​F.F. Mayer (Kostanay, Kazakhstan), E.L. Patsevich (St. Petersburg), N.N. Piven (Eagle), Yu.A. Reshetnikov (Ulyanovsk), M.A. Sevodin (Perm), Yu.E. Khokhlov (Moscow), V.V. Chuev (Cheboksary). Many results obtained at the seminar are reflected in the review articles [9], [10], [24], in the editions of "the results of science and technology" Vinity [13], [64], as well as in monographs [6], [65 ], [66], [146]. Since the beginning of the 90s of the last century, summer all-Russian schools-conference schools on the theory of functions have been regularly held in Kazan (see, for example, [32], [33], [41], [67], [68], [69], [69], [69], [69], [69], [69], [69], [69] [121], [122], [123]), in the organization of which the seminar members take an active part. We describe the main achievements of a number of mathematicians. grown up at the seminar and continuing active mathematical creativity, over the past two decades. Since Kazan is a leading center in Russia for research in the field of sufficient conditions of one -legged, we will start with this direction. 1. The conditions of one -leafness of analytical functions and their generalizations. Assessments for analytical and harmonic functions 1.1. Application of the parametric method and quasiconic continuity. In the theory of single-leafful functions, one of the most effective is the parametric method of Levner-Kufarev, which is based on the possibility of representing an arbitrary one-leaved conformal display through the solutions to the Koshu problem for the non-linear equation of Levner-Kufarev with the right part, the material part of which is positive. This gave a fundamentally new approach to the study of geometric and extreme properties of single -leafy analytical functions. On the other hand, the Levner-Kufarev equation generates the evolutionary families of nested areas, which made it possible to approach the decision of the act in a new point of view