Problems of modeling and monitoring of natural systems V.V. Kozoderov Moscow State University. M.V. Lomonosov vkozod@inm.ras.ru Introduction. The science of sustainability (Sustainability Science) proclaimed by the International Council of Scientific Unions (Sustainability Science) as a fundamental concept of natural and social sciences involves the construction of new informational modemic models of non-linear systems using the categories of unprepossessing unequal, unequal systems. . The relevant models should contribute to understanding the problem of the predictability of global and regional changes in the natural environment based on satellite monitoring data [1]. At the same time, the role of monitoring of the natural systems as another (along with modeling) the most important means of obtaining, processing, analysis and systematization of information about objects of research is growing. Violation of the principle of superposition (simple imposition of events) characterizes a wide variety of processes described using nonlinear equations. A different understanding of stability in scientific research defines the fundamental role of the research of “order” and “chaos” as those categories that share generally accepted ideas about “laws of nature” and describing chaotic phenomena. The lack of balance is the basis of the existence of living systems, the substantially nonlinear functioning processes of which always occur far from the equilibrium position. Irreversibility is another phenomenon that is not described within the framework of classical science, but which inevitably affects the existence of open systems in nature and society. Based on the listed features of the construction of the evolution of natural systems, the main provisions of the description of the equations of the evolutionary type, obtaining their decisions and the interpretation of the results in terms of the listed basic categories of nonlinear science are considered below. 80 Monitoring and modeling: General representations. Traditional modeling serves as a means of substantiating the possible consequences of global changes in the natural environment under the influence of the growth of population, anthropogenic effects on the natural environment and expansion of land use. The role of the science of stability should be reduced to clarifying the features of dynamic and information descriptions of natural phenomena. Data of regular satellite observations serve as an integral part of the receipt of information products with the aim of subsequent analysis of the inter -day variability of the ongoing processes. Field examinations and experiments planning models are an integral part of the solution of relevant scientific and applied tasks. In traditional studies of natural phenomena, they proceed from the need to construct individual funerals of the global system by introducing concepts about individual carbon tanks (ocean, forest, swamps, etc.), the use of balanced relationships, consideration of idealized metabolic processes and energy between these reservoirs. New information -and -dynamic models of the science of stability for open systems, the functioning of which is described by nonlinear equations, make it possible to substantiate the role and place of dynamic variables (temperature, pressure, concentration of interacting compounds, etc.) in the indicated functions. The use of satellite and ground observations allows us to study such subtle nuances of these freezes as the influence of different scale of measuring data on the final information products, local and regional features of dynamic modeling of natural systems. The idea is generally accepted that the data of the modeling of natural processes and monitoring of the natural environment constitute the content of scientific research that expand the amount of knowledge about the relevant objects and contribute to the possible predictability of changes in these objects. Models of the thermal hydroxy of natural environments are perceived as the initial stage of studying the phenomena under consideration, and information models make it possible to bring measurement elements in wider areas of research related to the field of display of observed processes using satellite observations data. The solution of dynamic equations with initial and boundary conditions opens up the prospects for the development of applied applications when describing natural phenomena. Information aspects of such applications in the traditional sense are characterized by various methods of processing and interpretation of remote sensing data using the principles of recognition of images and analysis of scenes. In fact, the information description of the behavior of such complex systems as, for example, the biosphere (biota and its surrounding natural environment), is much more fundamental than generally accepted research of information measures, data quality criteria and the classification of data obtained, usually represented in the form of multi -spectral images . The basis is predictable