The geometric structure of the field of equilibrium stresses of the continuous environment of V.P. Myasnikov, M.A. Guzev Institute of Automation and Control of the Far Eastern Administrative District of the Russian Academy of Sciences 690041, Vladivostok, ul. Radio, 5 Director@iacp.dvo.ru, guzev@iacp.dvo.ru 1. The wording of the problem. In the mechanics of the continuous environment, the following fact is well known [1]: with a given movement of the continuous medium and the distribution of surface and mass forces, the stress field in the environment is determined un UNITITIONALLY. Nevertheless, this fact is useful for adjusting the equations of the state of the continuous environment. In particular, such an adjustment [1, § 31] allows us to bring a system of laws of preserving the theory of elasticity to a symmetric hyperbolic species without changing the solutions of the system. Although the authors [1] considered elastic deformations, the analysis they conducted shows that the structure of additional stresses arising in the environment due to the choice of “new” internal energy depends on the differential structure of the dystorsia matrix KP α. The latter, as you know [1, § 12], determine the components of the vector of the burghers and the tensor of the density of the dislocations IB α:, k kb dx p α α = - ∫ i ikj kjb cαε = -, 1 2 j kj k j p p s x α α α α α α α α α α α α α α α α α α α α α α α α α α α ⎛ ⎞∂ ∂ ∂ = −⎜ ⎟⎜ ∂⎝ ⎠, where IKJε is the symbol of the levi-chivites, the summation is meant to be the summary of the repeated indices here. The functions of the KJC α characterize the deviation of the differential structure of the KP α display from the diffus: 0kjc α ≡, if the matrix of dystorsia kp α is dipheeromorphism, i.e., is generated by some vector field (,) x tq: / IIP X αmber = ∂ ∂. Then, for a material containing defects, the problem of uniting determination of the stress field can be reduced to the problem of describing defects that, with given efforts, can exist in the material. 127 From the point of view of the mechanics of the continuous environment, the introduction of characteristics to describe the internal structure of materials requires the expansion of the kinematic foundations of the classical theory. Back in the middle of 50 years. The XX century Condo and Bilby [2, 3] showed that the use of Burgers tensor to describe linear dislocations leads to the emergence of asymmetric connectedness in the theory of objects prohibited by the Euclidean geometric structure of the classical theory. In the future, many authors proposed options for generalizing the classical theory of elasticity within the framework of various non -Euclidean models of a continuous environment [4 - 9]. The need to introduce additional characteristics into the theory is also associated with the solution of purely engineering problems [10]. For example, engineers are well aware of the presence in the structures of internal self -stresses that do not disappear when removing external loads. The use of various technological techniques (for example, annealing) reduces these stresses. For hardening, you can use the beneficial properties of internal stresses (hardening, hardening, etc.). From a physical point of view, the internal stresses are associated with the presence of various defective structures in the material: dislocations, disclampions, etc. The reasoning formulated above allow the hypothesis that the problem of the uniting voltage determination, the problem of describing defects and the choice of non -Euclidean characteristics of the internal structure, as well as the problem of describing internal self -self -stress is interconnected. In the work, these problems are analyzed by the example of the task of equilibrium of an elastic body in a free state: there are no external mass and surface forces. It is shown that a set of equilibrium states of the solid is characterized by some functional arbitrariness. This functional arbitrariness is determined by the geometric structure of the variety generated by defects in the crystal lattice. At the same time, the resulting stress fields are the sum of the voltages initiated by defects and classic elastic stresses that ensure the intended fulfillment of equilibrium conditions at the border of the body under consideration. In the case of a Riman geometric structure, it is shown that in a linear theory, the task of finding internal stresses is reduced to the spectral task for the Laplace operator in the area occupied by the sample. In a situation of the general 128 position from the solutions of equilibrium equations, it is indicated how to choose a subset of such parameterizing functions that can be considered as objects of coherence in affinable-metric spaces. 2. The structure of the solution of equilibrium equations. The conditions of the mechanical equilibrium of the solid, as is known [1, 11], consists of zero all the forces attached to the volume, and the moments of these forces are recorded by 0, (, 1, 2, 3) I ij j v x ds i ds i ds i ds i ds i j’s ∂ ∂ ∂ = = = ∫ ∫ (1) () () 0ij il k k k kl i ik ik v m x x n dv dvσ σ σ ∂ = - + - = ∫ ∫ (2) where V is the volume occupied by the body considered, and V∂ - its surface, ijσ - components of the tensor of stress. In the absence of massive forces, inside the volume of V of the body, the equation of the equilibrium of the Koshi 0.ij JX σ∂ = ∂ (3) from a physical point of view [11, § 2] means that the force acting on the dedicated volume can be represented in Vee