Numerical modeling in the tasks of the dynamics of bulk media V.M. Sadov Institute of Computing Modeling SB RAS, Krasnoyarsk Sadov@icm.krasn.ru Introduction. The variety of stretching and compression is the main specific feature of bulk (granular) media, which must be taken into account when developing mathematical models. Permissible stresses in such environments are limited, external loads cannot exceed some maximum values. Therefore, models that simultaneously describe the state of compaction and the state of loosening of the bulk environment are used to study applied tasks of stability and bearing capacity of the bases and slopes [1], dynamic processes with shock waves and ruptures of the continuity [2]. This work provides the results of a numerical solution to dynamic problems obtained using a special algorithm of through account adapted to ruptures of this kind. Reoological models. To describe the deformation of diverse media, differently resisting stretching and compression, we add a traditional rheological scheme with a new element-a rigid contact (Fig. 1, a). When compressed, this element is not deformed. Deformation with zero voltage can be rice. 1. Rheological models of diverse and bulk media to be an arbitrary positive value. Stretching stresses are unacceptable. In Fig. 1, B - B presented the rheological models of the elastic -willed and diverse elastic environment. Using the plastic A B G D 184 and the viscous elements, you can build more complex models, among which we will consider models of perfectly loose materials with plastic and viscous properties (Fig. 1, M -D). The mathematical model of rigid contact (a model of a bulk environment with hard particles) is reduced to a system of ratios 0, 0, σ ε≤ ≥ 0σ ε =. Можно также представить ее в форме вариационных неравенств  ( ) 0, , 0, ( ) 0, , 0ε ε σ ε ε σ σ ε σ σ− ≤ ≥ − ≤ ≤ , (1)  каждое из которых допускает потенциальное представление  ( ), ( ) σ ∗ ε ε σ Phot∂ ∈∂. (2) Here ∗ andψ - the potentials of stresses and deformations - convex functions equal to zero on cones {| 0} C ε ε = ≥ and {| 0} K σ σ = ≤, respectively, equal to infinity outside these cones. In the convex analysis, such functions are called indicator and are designated as () c ε and () .kδ σ symbol ∂ serves to refer to the subdifferendal [3] () {| () () ()} ∗ ε ₽ ∈ ε С ε ε ε ε∂ = - ≥ - ∀, which is a lot of “angular coefficients” of linear functions, the graphics of which pass through the point (), () ε ∗ ε and lie and lie Below the function of the function. 8 the generalization of the model 1, and in the event of a spatial stress-deformed state, is easily built on the basis of inclusions (2). To do this, it is necessary to set the convex cone C in the space of tensors of deformations or Kon K in the space of tensors of stresses. If one of the cones is known, then the second is like conjugated: {| : 0}, {| : 0} K C C K of σ ε ε ε ε σ σ = ≤ ∀ ∈ = ≤ ∀ ∈ (a colon means a bundle of tenzors). The corresponding potentials - the characteristic functions of the cones C and K - are twice and are determined through each other by converting the Jung () () () sup: (), () sup: () σ ε ε σ σ σ ψ σ ​​ψ σ ​​ψ σ ​​ψ σ ​​ψ σ σ ε С ε = - = -. For the elastic-vast environment (Fig. 1, b):: / 2 (), ka σ σ δ σ = + where a is the tensor of the fourth rank of elastic suppleness modules that meets the models of the elastic element. The determining ratios (2) are given to the inequality of Haar and the pocket [3] (): (:) 0, a kσ σ ε σ σ– - ≥ ∈. (3) Given the symmetry and positive certainty of the tensor, but it can be shown that the decision (3) is the voltage tensor, Sπσ = equal projection on K at normal | | :: a a al ∈ () () SUP::: / 2 0. K A σ onic σ σ σ σ σ ∈ = - ≤ CHOD follows that the exact upper line is achieved at point 0 kσ = ∈ and what () 0. Pests ε = equivalent The approach to the description of the bulk environment with elastic particles consists in the task of differentiated voltage potential equal to zero on the convex cone C in the space of deformations and strictly positive outside .c in accordance with the physically non -linear law of the HUK /, σ ng ε = ∂ stress that meets deformations from This cone, also zero. The dual potential, determined by converting Jung, turns out to be equal to infinity in the appearance of the conjugated cone, k restricting the permissible tense states of the elements of the environment. 186 An example of the potential of stresses equal to zero on a convex cone is the degenerate potential of the diverse elastic environment of Myasnikov and Oleinikov [4]. The determining ratios of the elastic-vast environment to a certain extent are incorrect: by given stresses, they do not allow to unambiguously build a deformed state of the volumetric element. Regulus