Destruction dynamics: theory and experiment N.F. Morozov, Yu.V. Petrov St. Petersburg State University Institute of Transport of Transport of Russian Academy of Sciences YP@yP1004.SPB.EDU Introduction. Experiments on dynamic destruction reveal a number of effects that show the fundamental difference between the rapid dynamic rupture and the rupture of materials with slow quasistatic influences. So, for example, one of the main problems of testing the dynamic strength properties of materials is associated with the dependence of dynamic strength on the history and the method of applying the load. This is manifested in almost all situations of rapid destruction. Here, the strength can be understood as a critical intensity coefficient corresponding to the destruction at the top of the crack, and the maximum amplitude of the voltage pulses leading to the rupture of the “infectious” continuum: both of them provide some limit for the intensity of the local power field, after which the destruction occurs . Attempts to establish the magnitude of the critical stress and the critical intensity coefficient, which meets certain speeds of loading, do not lead to an unambiguous result. Dependence on the method of application of the load is manifested as a change in the limiting values ​​when changing the duration of the action, amplitude, the rate of increase in external effort, as well as a number of other factors. Experimentally certain values ​​of critical characteristics are characterized by a very great scatter, and as a result, their behavior is poorly predictable. Note that in the corresponding quasistatic situation, the critical quantity is a constant of the material. A sharp difference between the threshold amplitudes of external loads from quasistatic, the delay of destruction, the complex and poorly predictable nature of the destroyed zones, etc., is the fundamental difference for the dynamic rupture of materials. The systematic study of these and other features of rapid destruction requires complex high -precision experimental technology and became possible only in the last time. The experiments showed that testing the dynamic strength properties of the material on Mailto: yp@yp1004.spb.edu 111 based on the determining parameters accepted in quasistatics is very problematic. This is due not only to extremely great difficulties in experimental determination of speed dependencies for such parameters, but also by the special nature of dynamic destruction. It is clear that the basis used in the analysis of the rapid destruction of the model should be criteria that reflect the structural -modern features of the process. At the same time, the task of formulating the principles that are understandable to engineering practice is becoming increasingly relevant, since the methods and techniques of analysis used in many known, mainly numerical models, unfortunately, are really available only to their authors. For practical purposes, it is very important to have clear analytical tools that allow you to reduce a qualitative analysis of destruction to simple "industrial" procedures. One of the most striking examples of such an “industrial” approach is the structural macro-mechanic of destruction [1-2], as well as its natural generalization of the dynamics of the structural-temporal approach [3], based on the concept of incubation time of destruction. Despite the apparent formality, these phenomenological theories of destruction reflect important structural laws of the process of rupture of solid bodies. Their deep basis is the physical and geometric sampling of the process of dynamic rupture of materials, expressed in the need to introduce both spatial and temporary proportions at this large-scale level. The temporary scale endowed with the structure, in essence, reflects the principle of energy discretion of the process of dynamic destruction of solid bodies and, in this case, modeling can be carried out on the basis of an analogy with a classic quantum-mechanical approach [4]. One of the most important consequences of the structural-time approach is associated with the dual nature of dynamic destruction, which can be expressed in certain ratios between temporary loading parameters and the incubation period preceding the moment of macroscopic gap. This leads to a new look at the problem of testing the dynamic strength properties of materials. In a sense, the situation is similar to the one that we already had in the case of space 112 of the integrated characteristic linear size of the static mechanics of destruction. To clarify it, we consider static and dynamic cases sequentially. Structural macrochemechanics of destruction. One of the fundamental parameters of linear destruction mechanics is a structural linear size that describes an elementary cell of destruction. The linear size can be represented in the form of a dimensional combination of surface energy, a critical coefficient of intensity of voltages, static strength and elastic constants of the material 2 2 2 ~, ~ ic c e k d