The effect of the shielding of the anode surface on the asymmetry of the electrochemical forming V.V. Klokov Kazan State University vladimir.klokov@ksu.ru Electrochemical processing (echo) of metals is successfully used in mechanical engineering [1]. The result is achieved due to the anodic dissolution of the surface in an appropriate electrolyte. In this way, the burrs are removed and the sharp edges of various parts are rounded, holes are flashed, the blades of turbines and compressors are processed, calibration and many other operations are performed. The echo is a complex process, which is generally described by the laws of electrochemistry, magnetic hydrodynamics and thermal mass combin. An analysis of the available data [2] shows that the main effect on the rate of dissolution of the metal has intensity of the electric field and the distribution of the specific electrical conductivity of the medium in the gap between the anode and the cathode. In the first approximation, when the environment can be considered homogeneous, the potential of the field is a harmonic function. The boundary conditions for it should be given taking into account emelene processes in the electrolyte [3]. In some cases, the border of the clearance can be considered equitaneical [2]. However, this is not enough for a complete setting of the edge task, since the shape of the dissolving surface is unknown in advance, another condition is necessary to determine it. And here, the stationary regime of the echo is of independent interest when the cathode tool is slowly approaching on the processed anode surface, and the shape of the interelectrode clearance does not change. This mode is found during firmware, cutting, grinding and other technological processes. In this case, the law of movement of the instrument and the law of the anodic dissolution of the metal determine the boundary condition closing the task. In [2], a wide class of flat tasks of a stationary echo is considered. They are reduced to the tasks of hydromechanics. A number of exact decisions have been obtained. The relevant productions and solution methods are illustrated below on a specific example of the problem of a stationary echo with a given cathode instrument in order to determine 62 influence on the asymmetry of the anode boundary of the presence of a site on it, which brinomes and localizes the processing zone. The solution to the problem, as in [2], was obtained by the method of the year of speed. The cross -sectional diagram of the interelectrode gap in the plane -parallel nature of the fields of all variable values ​​is presented in Fig. 1. The localizing part of the BC anode border can occur naturally with the course of electrolyte from the left side of the cross section to the right, but can be artificially created from the insoluble metal coating of the anode, moving along with a cathode tool. Separate tasks related to the presence of the screen, anode -polarized and insoluble in the processing process, were considered in the work [4, 5]. The study of the distribution of potential with an additional electrode is presented in the work [6]. The location of additional electrodes for aligning the current density on the cathode surface is used in galvanostegia [3]. With dimensional electrochemical processing, the effect of shielding is practically not studied. It is believed that the determining forming is the nature of a stationary electric field in a gap for assumptions of the so -called “ideal” model [1, 2]. In Fig. 1 line AB-the desired stationary anode border, BC is an anode border, parallel to the cathode tool C C _A D KV D ZD Y ++ 1 Fig. 1. The cross section diagram of the gap, 1 - the screen M B A 63 ADC and the localizing processing zone. The location of this section, parallel to the KV supply speed, is characterized by the distance D. The thickness of the tool is neglected in order to compare with a well -known “parabolic” solution to the problem, when in the absence of a localization section of the anode border the type of parabola 2 (1) / 2 = —Y X [2]. Hereinafter, all the geometric dimensions of the real interelectrode clearance are attributed to the dimensional quantity k u u h v ηκε ρ - ∆ =, where η is the output, κ - electrics, ε is the electrical conductivity of the medium in the gap, u ur - the voltage of the power source and its drop in its fall In the Electrodic layers, ρ is the density of the anode material, KV is the value of the feed speed parallel to the .Oy axis listed, including the cathode and anode potentials, are considered constant along the entire border of the interelectrode clearance. The mathematical setting of the problem is given in the assumptions of the “ideal” model and consists in finding the area of ​​the anode border AB area of ​​the existence of the complex potential () w z i accord ψ = +, z x iy = + electrostatic field in the gap when fulfilling the following conditions: 0abcψ = + 0abcψ = + - a condition for the equitaneity of the anode border; 1Adcψ = - the condition of the equitaneity of the cathode boundary; / cosψ θ = ∂ ∂ = j n on ab - condition of the processing of processing, where J is the local current density; /∂ ∂n - derivative in the direction of the internal normal; θ is the angle of inclination tangent to the OX axis; BCX D = - the condition of the localization of the processing zone. The solution to the problem is obtained by the methods of the year