Modeling of the processes of finger formation with moisture on the unsaturated porous media A.G. Egorov, R.Z. Dautov Research Institute of Mathematics and Mechanics. N.G. Chebotarev Kazan State University Andrey.egorov@ksu.ru Introduction. The phenomenon of finger formation has been in the last few decades great interest to mechanics working in various subject areas. Description of the instability of the initially homogeneous flows with their subsequent decay into a stable-developing system of fingers is one of the most important tasks when studying water-unpleasant contacts, the spread of flame, growth of crystals, etc. In unsaturated soil processes of the finger formation when gravitational impregnation fronts are observed, starting with 50s of the last century [1]. Numerous laboratory experiments [2, 3, 4] clearly demonstrate that at least for rough -grained porous media, the formation of fingers is a rule, and not an exception. Accounting for this is extremely important for predicting the intensity of moisture transfer and conjugated processes of transferring pollution in the aeration zone from the day surface to the groundwater mirror. The presence of preferred ways generated by the decay of a homogeneous impregnation front into individual fingers significantly reduces the time of moisture migration through the aeration zone, and thereby reduces its protective properties. The practical importance and scientific significance of the phenomenon of the finger formation dictates the need to develop an adequate mathematical model of this phenomenon. Numerous attempts in this direction gave a certain understanding of certain aspects of the problem, however, building a holistic model remains still a matter of the future. Such a model should be capable of (I) to generate the initial unstable growth of small indignations of the impregnation front and (II) to ensure the “safety” of growing indignation, protecting it from transverse smashing. What are the mechanisms that are able to provide these two most important properties? Initially, they are absent in the classical model of Richards, describing the flows of moisture in unsaturated porous media. On Ka 29 Roles, you can try to modify this model for an adequate reproduction of the observed phenomenon? This lecture analyzes one of the possibilities. It consists in taking into account the effects of memory, dynamic (relaxation) and static (hysteresis), when setting the main rheological ratio of the theory of unsaturated filtration connecting moisture content and capillary pressure. It is assumed that relaxation will be responsible for the imprisonment of the impregnation front, hysteresis - ensure the safety and sustainable development of the fingers that occur during the decay of the front. The structure of the lecture is agreed with the above program. Section 1 discuss the stability of the equations of the moisture -transmitted in relation to three different models. This is the traditional model of Richards (re), its modification of the Stefanovsky type (SFRE) and the relaxation modification of the Richards model (RRE). A nonlinear analysis of the first of them (paragraph 1.1) proves its absolute stability. The other two are analyzed in linear approximation with respect to the describing the structure of the impregnation front by solving the type of running wave. This solution for SFRE (paragraph 1.2) is absolutely unstable in the sense that the harmonious indignation of the front of any frequency leads to the exponential growth of indignation, the higher the frequency, the higher the growth rate. This type of instability contradicts experimentally observed. Unlike two other models, RRE (paragraph 1.3, 1.4.) Demonstrates conditional instability, that is, resistance to high -frequency disturbances and instability on low -frequency ones. This leads to the presence of a minimum on a dispersion curve, the position of which determines the characteristic scale of the system of fingers generated initially by a homogeneous impregnation front. Further behavior of the fingers formed can be analyzed only on the basis of numerical modeling. It is carried out in the second section of work. Initially (paragraph 2.1), RRE is generalized in this model of hysteresis effects. It is shown that the new model (Hrre), on the one hand, inherits from RRE the property of conditional instability, and on the other hand, provides a mechanism that prevents the lateral smearing of the fingers and thereby stabilizing their development. In paragraph 2.2, a numerical method of HRRE analysis is designed. Further (paragraph 2.3) it is used to model (I) of the spread of a single finger and (II) decay of 30 poorly indignant homogeneous stream on a system of fingers. The modeling results qualitatively correctly describe both the morphological features of the individual finger and the structural characteristics of the finger system. Finally, in conclusion, the results are briefly discussed and the prospects of further research are outlined. 1. The stability of the equations of the moisture transmission 1.1. Richards equation: nonlinear analysis. Traditionally, moisture flows in an unsaturated porous environment are described on the basis of the Richards model (re) () () 0 S k p k s