Statistical aerohydromekhanik V.Ya. Rudyak Novosibirsk State Architectural and Construction University 630008, Novosibirsk, Leningradskaya, 113 rudyak@ngasu.nsk.su Introduction. Aerohydromechanics describes a variety of natural phenomena and technological processes. Her first loud successes associated with the name of Archimedes indicate a respectable age. The XIX century of the new era dressed her in elegant clothes of differential equations. Wonderful fashion designers of the last century created a masterpiece, which now has the name of the Vyzhy-Koksa equations. Time, however, accelerated by technological progress, modifies the body for which the costume was sewn, and it becomes cramped. And the point is not at all in the survey of fashion, which, of course, does not stand still. Already at the beginning of the last century, it became clear that a wide class of hydrodynamic phenomena called turbulent currents requires certain adjustments to the equations, and, possibly, revising the original premises. The development of new technologies put on the agenda first the study of homogeneous media with the laws of transfer, which are no longer described by simple linear determining ratios of the equations of Navestox, and then heterogeneous multiphase environments. The trouble, however, was that simple phenomenological approaches, which ended with a brilliant success of creating the equations of classical hydromechanics, turned out to be unusable here. The search for new alternative ways of describing was relevant. This lecture is devoted to the analysis of various statistical approaches to build aerohydromechanics models. Since the list of relevant models is extremely wide, we intend to limit ourselves to only models of the continuous environment. The main goal that I pursued was to outline the boundaries of the applicability of traditional models on the one hand, and on the other hand, to show the possibilities of statistical methods when constructing new models and studying the circle of phenomena that can be described with the help of the latter. The structure of the lecture is as follows. Section 1 discusses the “cornerstone” of the mechanics of the continuous environment-the concept of a continuous 153rd environment, in section 2, the traditional output of the Environmental School equations is considered and the area of ​​applicability is determined. Sections 3-8 are devoted to the statistical methods of constructing hydrodynamic models, in section 9, mixed kineticohydromic level of description of dispersed liquids is considered, in section 10 the equations of fluctuation hydrodynamics are displayed. This lecture does not discuss the models of turbulent fluid currents, because, according to the author, these models are still secondary. 1. The concept of a continuous environment. Any liquid or gas is a system of a large number of particles, atoms or molecules. Therefore, in principle, in order to describe the dynamics of such an environment, it is necessary to proceed from the system of equations of the movement of molecules. Obviously, it is extremely difficult to implement a similar method of description due to a huge number of particles in the system. There is a fundamental restriction here. The principle of Heisenberg's uncertainty determines the boundaries of the accuracy of the dynamic description of the system of interacting particles1. The consequence of this is an important conclusion that any dynamic description of the particle system will always be coarsened in one way or another. In hydrodynamics, the degree of this coarsening is extreme. It is assumed that liquid or gas can be considered as a continuous medium, a continuous continuum. The dynamics of the system, liquid or gas is described by a set of several macroscopic observed. Their choice seems quite reasonable - it is density, impulse, moment of impulse and the energy of the system. As you know, these values ​​in a closed system are integratedly preserved. Thus, the task of constructing a hydrodynamic (macroscopic) level of description of the system is to derive the corresponding equations for these macroscopic variables and then solve them. 1 The principle of uncertainty does not prohibit the dynamic description of the system of many particles, it prohibits arbitrarily small detail of the evolutionary process. Thus, it, generally speaking, prohibits the description of such processes in the language of differential equations. Nature, apparently, does not know infinitely small, and therefore the apparatus of differential calculus is hardly adequate to the end, although, of course, we must be infinitely grateful to him, since almost everything that we have today, his creation. 154 Before discussing the conclusion of the equations themselves, you should understand how to determine hydrodynamic (macroscopic) variables. The very concept of macroscopic variables assumes that to describe the environment, some of its characteristics can be distinguished, which are quite insensitive to changes in density, impulse, moment of pulse and energy due to individual movements of molecules. This means that microscopic fluctuations of these values ​​can be neglected. What is the scale of such fluctuations? Here we come to about