) Relaxation methods for solving equations with the saddle operator 1 Introduction to the application of various close methods for finding solutions to the equations of mathematical physics, as a rule, leads to the need to solve the systems of linear algebraic equations with the following specifics: the large dimension of the vector of unknown, poor conditionality and tape structure of the system matrix. The noted properties give rise to the priority development of iterative methods for solving such systems, called masque. The bibliography of works on this topic is not amenable to accounting, however, a fairly complete idea of ​​the current state of the theory of iterative methods for solving grid equations can be obtained from the following publications: Young D.M. ITERATIVE SOLUTION OF LAGER LINEAR SYSTEMS (1971) [60], Marchuk G.I. Methods of computing mathematics (1977) [17], Samara A.A., Nikolaev E.S. Methods of solving grid equations (1978) [24], Hackbusch W. Multi - Grid Methods and Applications. (1985) [51], Dyakonov E.G. Minimization of computing work. Asymptotically optimal algorithms for elliptical tasks (1989) [7]. The solution of grid equations with the saddle operator attracted the attention of researchers in the field of numerical analysis relatively recently (from the beginning of the 70s) and therefore was reflected only in the last of these books. Such systems of the 1st work were supported by the RFFIF, the project N 99-01-01146 44 in applications occurs quite often, for example, with a numerical solution of linear stationary and non-stationary problems in hydrodynamics and elastic theory, as well as in a mixed approach when solving elliptical equations of the second order and the second order etc. At the same time, the term “seddle operator”, or “operator with a saddle point”, apparently, was borrowed from the theory of mathematical programming [18]. It should be noted that most of the existing iterative solutions are intended for systems with familiar symmetrical matrices. The specifics of symmetrical matrices of the saddle systems consists in unfamiliarity, i.e. In the presence of own values ​​of different signs. Therefore, traditional approaches to solve systems with such matrices, generally speaking, are not applicable. We note in the conditional-chronological order of the authors who have made a noticeable contribution to the construction and study of algorithms for solving saddle problems: Arrow K., Hurwicz L., Uzawa H., Cruzeix M., Temam R., Girault V., Raviart P.A., Langer U. , Queck W., Bank R.E., Welfert B.D., Yserentant H., Bramble J.H., Pasciak J.E., Elman H., Golub G., Silvester D.J., Wathen A., Kobelkov G.M., Dyakonov E.G., Dyakonov E.G., BAKHALOV N.S., Peltsov B.V., Olshansky M.A. in our country. However, despite the representativeness of the bibliography, you should pay attention to the absence to the present time in the literature of any systematic presentation of the theory of iterative methods of solving saddle systems containing both the analysis of convergence and the comparison of the computational efficiency of various algorithms. In addition, we note the extreme rarity of not only decisions, but also the sets of the tasks of asymptotic optimization for this case. We give a brief presentation of the main ideas for constructing algorithms in this area, for uniformity we will use algebraic terminology. Consider the material system of linear algebraic equations Lεz = F with the parameter ≥ 0 of the next type Lεz ≡ (a b bt —erg) (u p) = (f g) ≡ f, (0.1) where a = at> 0, c = ct> 0 - Square matrices of size 45 nu × nu and np × np, and B is rectangular, in general, the NU × NP size matrix. The disbelief of the Lo matrix is ​​assumed with any ε ≥ 0, which makes it a saddle operator [7]. The Stox type system will call the most important particular case of the problem (0.1) - L0z = F (ε = 0). We confine ourselves when listing the bibliography only to them, as the most complex and fundamental (because from ε> 0 immediately follows Det (Lε) 6 = 0). From the point of view of applications, the most common approach to solving the problem L0z = F is to build algorithms of the Uzawa type. In the simplest form [35] it can be recorded as follows:    auk+1+b pk = f, - p k+1 - pk τk+bt uk+1 = g. (0.2) Here τk is a material variable iteration parameter. For the case of a constant parameter τk = τ r.temam [26], a sufficient condition for the method of method (0.2) in differential form: 0 <τ <2. The presence of an absolute constant, equal to two, is due to the fact that in the differential case the spectrum of the operator BTA -11B belongs to the segment [γ, 1], γ> 0. This result was improved by M.crouzex [45], having received in a differential case a sufficient condition for convergence of the following type: 0 <inf k (τk) ≤ sup k (τk) <2. In the same work, apparently for the first time, it was noted that the Udzava algorithm (0.2) is equivalent to the method of simple iteration for the system of equations with a symmetric positively defined matrix A0 = B TA -1B: PK +1 - PK τK +A0 P K = BTA -11F + G ≡ f̃. (0.3) This form of recording allows you to use the results of the general theory of iteration