A multi-scale analysis based on MKE and Vevlet-transformation 1 pp. Kopisov, Yu.A. Sagdeeva Institute of Applied Mechanics of the Russian Academy of Sciences of the Russian Academy of Sciences, Izhevsk 1 Introduction of the theory of the Weevetets, although it appeared relatively recently, is actively used to solve a variety of applied problems [1-3]. One of the main advantages of the owl of the function is the ability to work with a function on the scale that interests us, that is, if necessary, both small details of the functions and its general behavior can be considered. This possibility of choosing resolution is attractive in solving differential equations LU = F with rapidly changing coefficients (for example, the tasks of the theory of elasticity of composite materials). The initial equation in such tasks is replaced by the wasted, so that the solution of the omanded problem corresponds to the solution of the initial problem. The most developed theory of depreciation is asymptotic osproving (osvediating N.S. Bakhkhvalov) [4], in which the solution is presented in the form of several components - a gross (omitted) component and rapidly -opticing local clarifications. This method requires solving periodic problems in the representative volume and is quite complicated for software implementation. To date, examples of its implementation are limited by a two -dimensional case (see, for example, [5]). Office can also be overthrown with the help of wake. In this case, the owl-transformation is combined with one of the net methods-by the final difference (MKR) or the final elements (MKE) method, and venules are used at different stages of solving the problem. So, venuvtes can be selected as basic functions in MKE or used at the stage of SLAU solutions received during the solution (multi -scale analysis). The use of venules as basic functions has not yet been sufficiently studied, but the first examples of 1 work were carried out with the support of the RFFI, project No. 02-07-90265. 182 S.P. Kopisov, Yu.A. Sagdeeva seemed that Slau received in MKE have the worst properties compared to classic basic functions (see [6]). In a multi -scale analysis, the use of owls to the SLAU formed in the microdistrict is well studied well. In this case, it is proved [7] that the operator L, washed through a multiple analysis, retains its appearance, which allows you to find the correspondence between the obtained solution vector and the mesh nodes. In the case of MKE, the interpretation of the solution for the grid is difficult, because there is no obvious expression of the sampled operator for MKE. The matrix Slau is from individual elemental matrices, and in the neighboring lines (that is, those that will be equipped), variables that meet the nodes located far from each other can stand). However, MKE allows you to solve problems for more complex nets and is widely used in solving three -dimensional problems. Therefore, a geometric interpretation of the solution is an important task. The works presented in this area are limited so far by one -dimensional case. This work is devoted to the use of a two -dimensional owl -transformation of Haar to the SLAU received in MKE. The work has the following structure. First, the concept of “owls” is introduced, then the procedure of multi -scale decomposition is determined. Particular attention is paid to the algorithm of two -dimensional transformation. A numerical example is given. 2 owls and their properties consider the space v. Venerations are called the functions that form the Basis of the space V, and obtained by the shift and compression of one function (denote it ψ (x)), called the maternal veseum, by the formulas ψj, k (x) = 2 j/2ψ (2jx - k), k, k, k, k, k, k, k, k, k. J ∈ Z. These functions have a final medium and their average are zero. As a space V, the space L2 (R) is often chosen. In addition, the scaling functions φj, k (x) are introduced, which are also the basis of the space L2 (R) and form a multi-scale analysis based on MKE and the owl-transformation of a similar scheme φj, k (x) = 2 j/2jx. - k), (2.1) But the average of these functions is equal to one, that is, ∫ φ φj, k (x) = 1. Functions with the above properties are a lot. Preferable among them are those that have the properties of orthogonality, symmetry, smoothness and have compact media. However, the only basis that satisfies all properties, except for the third, is the Basis of Haara. At the same time, this basis is the simplest. The Haara basis is set by the following functions: ψ (x) = {1, x ∈ [0, 1/2), −1, x ∈ [1/2, 1], φ (x) = {1, x ∈ [0, 1], 0, x /∈ [0, 1]. However, it is poorly suitable for the approximation of smooth functions, therefore, semi -orthonal and bi -otonnal owls are also considered. 3 The multiple decomposition of the function due to the hierarchical definition of scalable functions and owls in the same property of hierarchics will have a sequence of spaces they determined. Consider for each n space vn = span {φn, k (x)}. Thanks to (2.1), the sequence of spaces of VN will be invested, i.e. v0 ⊂ v1 ⊂. . . ⊂ vn ⊂. . . (3.1) space VN+1