Increasing the effectiveness of the multi-section method of solving convection-diplomatic problems with predominant convection1 EM Andreeva of the South Russian Regional Center for Informatization of Higher School, Rostov-on-Don 1 Introduction during mathematical modeling of many processes in the mechanics of liquid and gas as a basic model uses the convection-disruption equation. There are a large number of such natural processes and phenomena-the spread of pollution in reservoirs and atmosphere, the movement of groundwater, the tasks of magnetic hydrodynamics, etc. The study of most processes described by the convection-disengation equation, is especially important in solving environmental problems. In cases where the convection process is predominant, the use of standard numerical methods is difficult. This is due to the presence of a small parameter with a senior derivative, which leads after the variety of approximation of the differential equation to the asymmetric systems of linear algebraic equations in which there is no diagonal predominance. Under some additional conditions, the phenomenon of the border layer may occur in such tasks. There are various methods and approaches to solve problems of this type. One of the effective methods applicable to solving the problems of convection-diplomacy with predominant convection is the multi-section method. The method is optimal in the number of arithmetic operations to achieve accuracy agreed with the procedure for convergence. The peculiarity of the method is that it is a kind of template. There is no strictly established multi -section algorithm applicable to all regional tasks. The effectiveness of the multi -section method depends on the 1st work with the support of the program "Universities of Russia", project No. 03.01.019 95 on increasing the efficiency of the multi -section method. . . adaptation of the main components of the method to solved problem. In this paper, a method of increasing the effectiveness of the method for the considered classes of tasks is proposed by choosing a smoothing procedure. 2 The setting of the problem on the uniform grid ωh = {x | x = (ih, jh), 0 6 i, j 6 n, h = 1/n}, where n is the number of points of separation of the segment [0, 1], we will consider The inpatient equation of convection-disjection, recorded in symmetric form: 1 2 (2∑ α = 1 vα (x) ∂u ∂xα + ∂ (vα (x) u) ∂xα)-1 pE 2∑ α = 1 ∂2U ∂ x2α = f (x). (2.1) In order to solve the problems of convection-disjusion with the predominant convection, it is important to choose the method of approximation of the continuous task, which is most suitable for the type of task under consideration. Thus, opposite schemes are more effective for poorly non -self -intended tasks and are given as a result of approximation M -matrix. When using central-growth approximation and, if desired, to maintain the monotony of the variety operator, it is necessary to impose a restriction of a step of the grid. When the coefficients during the first derivatives are quite large, this restriction becomes significant. If these restrictions are not made, then the matrix of the obtained system of linear algebraic equations will not have diagonal predominance, and the use of basic iterative methods to solve such a system will lead to great difficulties, because the condition of the diagonal predominance in the original matrix is ​​a condition for these methods of their effective convergence. For such tasks, in addition to the method of diverse approximation, the initial form of recording the convection-disengage equation is very important. There are three forms of recording operator convective transfer (divergent, non -verbal and symmetrical), which are equivalent to differential equation in inconsistent media, but lead to various forms of different equations that differ in their properties. 96 E.M. Andreeva is a symmetrical form of recording is often used for the convection-disengation equation when considering the processes of thermal and masses in an inconsistent environment. After the central-characteristic approximation of the differential equation, we will receive a system of linear algebraic equations with an asymmetric matrix, for the solution of which we use a multi-section method with special smooters. 3 The multi -section method of the algorithmic basis of the multi -section method is a technique based on the property of some iterative methods to converge with a high speed on the first iterations, slowing down in the future. This is due to the suppression of the Fourier component of the initial error in the decomposition according to the basis from its own vectors, that is, the method quickly extinguishes high -frequency harmonics of the error, which allows them to significantly suppress their contribution for several iterations. Low -frequency harmonics converge much more slowly and therefore will make up the overwhelming part of the error. A multi -section algorithm can significantly increase the effectiveness of the main iteration method, combining the usual iteration process with a technique called rough -section correction - consistent use in the calculations of rude grids. One iteration includes four main stages: smoothing, Restriction (restriction, projection), Prolon