. . . The use of triangular and alternately-triangular redeemers for variation-type methods 1 O.A. Lapshina of the South Russian Regional Center for Informatization of Higher School, G. Rostov-on-Don 1 setting the problem when solving various tasks of mathematical physics in moving media, two basic processes are convection (transfer of the substance due to the movement of the environment) and diffusion (movement of molecules). Therefore, by studying the equation of convection of diulfusion as a model task, you can get a lot of information about the behavior of a solution to specific practical problems. Consider the inpatient equation of convection-diplomatic convection    −PE-1∆U + 1 2 {v1ux + v2uy + (v1u) x + (v2u) y} = f, u (x, y) | ∂ω = 0, div v̄ = 0, v̄ = (v1, v2), (x, y) ∈ ω = [0, 1] × [0, 1], f = f (x, y), u = u (x , y). (1.1) Here PE is a dimensionless value called the number of Peckla, ∆ - Laplace operator, v̄ = (V1, V2) - speed vector. The first term in the equation (1.1) corresponds to diffusion transfer, and the rest - convective. The main feature of this equation from the point of view of a numerical solution is the non -self -intensity of the variety operator obtained after the approximation of the continuous task. In addition, the task may have other features that complicate the solution. For example, by increasing the number of Peckla, we get a small parameter with an older derivative. Therefore, in the decision of the 1st work, it was carried out with the support of the RFFIF, project No. 03-01-000050, and about the grams of "Universities of Russia", project No. 03.01.019 192 O.A. Lapshina of such tasks is very important as the choice of a method of approximation of a continuous task [1], which is most suitable for this particular case, and the method of a numerical solution of the obtained system of equations. In this work, more attention is paid to the second issue. 2 of of the end-striped approximation of the convection-disengation equation to solve the differential equation (1.1) we will use the finite difference method [1]. To do this, we introduce an uniform grid over the space with the steps HX and Hy: ωH = {XI = IHX, YJ = = JHY, I = 0, 1,. . . , Nx, j = 0, 1 ,. . . , Ny, hxnx = 1, Hyny = 1}. The corresponding diverse task is obtained by the sampling of the differential task on the ωH grid according to [1]. For approximation of the first derivatives, we will use the central differences. Recording the convection-diplomatic convection equation in symmetrical form with central-growth approximation will allow us to maintain the basic properties of differential operators of this equation. With natural streamlining of the mesh nodes, we move on to the system of linear equations Ax = b, (2.1) where a is the asymmetric dimension matrix (n - 1) × (n - 1), X is the vector of solutions, and B is the vector of the right part obtained as a result approximation of the right part and regional conditions of the problem (1.1). In the case of central-growth approximation of convective members in (1.1), the operator A can naturally be represented in the form of the sum of a symmetrical positively defined operator A0 and the oblique operator A1. Here A0 is a different analogue of the Laplace operator describing the diffusion process B (1.1), and A1 approximates convective members. Determination 2.1 [2]. The operator A is called dissipative if its symmetrical part is positively determined. 193 Using triangular and alternately-triangular. . . Given the results from [3], we get that as a result of central-growth approximation, we have a dissipative matrix. Thus, during the approximation of equations in private derivatives, I will come to the system of varied equations with a special matrix, which has a number of features (rfigity, tape structure, large dimension). These characteristics, on the one hand, facilitate the solution of this problem, and on the other hand, require the creation of special solution methods that would take into account the specifics of the problem. 3 Variation Iteration methods recently both in our country and abroad have become widespread variations or methods of Krylov’s subspace, as they are called in foreign literature that appeared in the early 50s of the last century. This approach is based on the idea of ​​minimizing a certain value (norm) in the subspace of Krylov or on the terms of orthogonality (bioponeness) of vectors to the subspace of Krylov. Determination 3.1. The space KM = {R0, AR0, ..., A M-1R0} is called the space of the wing of the MI Dimension, built for A and R0 = B--AX0. Here R0 is the initial unleasur. Depending on the conditions under which R is built, we get one of the methods of the subspace of Krylov. These methods have established themselves well when solving a wide range of mathematical modeling problems, as they have the following important properties: they are numerically stable (thanks to the use of orthogonalization techniques), the most beneficial for sparse matrices of a large dimension (since the most time -consuming operation is the multiplication of the vector matrices), Applicable for solving systems with asymmetric matrices. On the last property