Analysis of the methods of rebuilding triangular end-element nets1 S.P. Kopisov, A.K. Новиков Институт прикладной механики УрО РАН, г. Ижевск  1 Адаптивное перестроение конечно-элементной сетки  Перестроением конечно-элементной сетки можно уменьшить ошибку аппроксимации функции u на области Ω [1]  ‖u− uh‖W 1 2 (Ω) 6 c  h  sin θ ‖ U‖W 2 2 (ω) by reducing the step of the grid H and (or) an increase in the minimum angle θ. This is based on the processes of adaptive clarification of the net model. The step of the grid can be reduced by the division of the final elements (H-version of the MKE) [2–4] or the movement (change in coordinates) of the mesh nodes (R-version) [5]. The following algorithm for adaptive clarification is proposed. 1. We solve the problem on the TK grid with the coordinates of the XK nodes (for the source mesh k = 0). 2. We calculate the error of the solution η (tk). 3. If η (tk) 6 ∗ or | η (tk) - η (tk - 1) | 6 ε, we believe that a decision with the error η (TK) has been obtained, and we leave the algorithm. In another case: (a) select the final elements from TK to rebuild the H-version; (b) we calculate the new coordinates of XK+1 mesh nodes; (C) Remove the grid according to the H-version and get TK+1. We increase K per unit and go one step 1. 1 work was supported by the RFFIF, projects No. 02-07-90265, No. 03 07-06119 and the Ural branch of the Russian Academy of Sciences 171 Analysis of ways to rebuild triangular. . . This algorithm is quite universal: by missing step 3, b, we get the H-version of MKE; Passing the step 3C-R-version. If you rearrange these steps, you can get a H-version with smoothing. The end of the completion guarantees an exit from the algorithm both when the permissible size of the error η ∗, and in the case when the error changes in a non -essential way. The decrease in the error [6] when using the R-version of the MKE is limited on the one hand with a fixed number of mesh nodes, and on the other hand, a change in the geometry of triangles (the minimum inner angle in the triangle decreases). Despite the fact that the dimension of the system of of of the end-element equations does not increase, a multiple solution to problems on nets with a large number of final elements requires large computational costs. Therefore, the movement of the nodes will be considered in combination with the H-version of MKE as an auxiliary process of clarification. The division of triangular finite elements is carried out by the introduction of a new node (or several nodes) on the rib or inside the triangle. Thus, the element can be divided into two, three or four triangles. When dividing into two triangles, a new node is placed on one of the ribs of a rebuilt triangle, when divided into three - inside the triangle, into four - nodes are placed on the middle of all, one for each rib. Basically, the division into two triangles (division by the largest side, division by a new node) and division into four triangles - regular division are applied [2, 7]. In addition, the replacement of a common rib in adjacent triangles based on Lemma Delona is used [4]. This method of rebuilding allows you to increase the minimum angle of the final element and reduce the step of the grid without introducing additional nodes into the net. Further, under the restructuring, we understand the division of triangles or the replacement of common ribs in adjacent triangles. 2 Methods of rebuilding the triangular mesh we will believe that in the original triangle 4ABC ∈ T the ribs are streamlined as follows: | BC | 6 | AC | 6 | ab |. As a result, α 6 β 6 γ (Fig. 1, a). 172 S.P. Kopisov, A.K. Novikov process of rebuilding the grid in the general case consists of two stages: clarifying and coordinating rebuilding. The need for consistent rebuilding is caused by a violation of the conformity of the grid during clarifying restructuring (Fig. 1, b). The triangle 4CBD is a non -informed triangle and will be divided by rib A′D with coordinating rebuilding. Prior to the consonant of the rebuilding, the rib CB will be a non -informed 4CBD rib, and the node a ′ - its non -informed node. Further, the non -editorial node will designate VU, and the top in the non -informed triangle, which is opposite to the non -editorial side, is VCU (in the case under consideration, this is the vertex D). Non -informed triangles must be shared in the order of their appearance. In another case, it is possible to appear more than one non -editorial node on the edge, for example, nodes C and C ′ in Fig. 4, B, if the rib AB does not belong to the border ω. All methods of dividing the triangles can be carried out by one of two algorithms: divide all the specified triangles, then perform coordinating rebuilding for the entire grid or perform coordinating rebuilding after dividing each specified triangle. Let us dwell in more detail on the methods of dividing triangular finite elements. g ba a a b b b g g g à) á) d a-d a b ’c’ b a ’c’ b b ’a’ dc rice. 1: Regular division of regular division is carried out by the introduction of new nodes on the middle of the parties to the divided triangle (Fig. 1). In this case, four triangles are obtained. As can be seen from Fig. 1, the sizes of the internal corners of the triangles do not change due to the similarity of the triangles. The introduction of new nodes violates conform 173 Analysis of the methods of rebuilding