. Numerical integration in the R-version of MKE 1 pp. Kopisov, I.V. Krasnoperov Institute of Applied Mechanics of the Russian Academy of Sciences, Izhevsk 1 Introduction for all elements of high order, numerical integration is mandatory, and the cost (used machine) of this process must be minimized. More economical squares can significantly reduce the amount of calculations during integration. The aim of the work is to increase the efficiency of numerical integration in the formation of the finite-element matrix of stiffness, since this part of the calculations in MKE occupies a significant percentage of the entire time of solving the problem. The situation is significantly complicated if high-order hierarchical elements are used (P-version of MKE), for example, elements built on the Lyandra Polynoma dedicated [1,2]. Such elements can have various orders on the ribs and faces [3, 4] and are used where elements with different number of degrees of freedom in various directions are required. In this case, the number of elements and their sizes do not change. A high degree of accuracy that can be achieved using elements of higher degrees means that decisions acceptable to practical purposes can often be obtained using a very small number of such elements. The 1st work was supported by the RFFIF, project No. 02-07-90265 and a grant of young scientists of the Russian Academy of Sciences. 162 S.P. Kopisov, I.V. When solving practical problems, Krasnopers are often required to simulate the boundaries of a very complex type, and the forms of elements significantly affect the convergence of the solution. Calculations at the element level include the calculations of the matrix of the rigidity and vector of the right side of the system. When calculating the stiffness matrices, numerical integration is used, for example, for the tasks of the theory of elasticity: a = ∫ ωx b t ψdbψdωx = ∫ ωurb b t ψdbψ detjdular = (1.1) = ng∑ i = 1 ng∑ j = 1 ng∑ k = 1 wiwjwk · Detj [(B (ă1i, ă2j, ă3k)) TDB (ă1i, ă2j, hole)], where the matrix Bψ is the result of the work of the differentiation matrix on the matrix of the functions of the form; D is the matrix of elastic constant; J - Jacobian; Wi - weight coefficients of squares. For numerical integration of the rigidity and vectors of the forces, the quiss-Dandra quadrature formulas are mainly used [1]. Their decisive advantage is that high accuracy is achieved with a slight number of integration points. The number of integration points for each coordinate can be different, however, as a rule, they prefer to choose them equal. The establishment of the integration procedure is an important task. If the integration procedure is accepted too high, then the account time increases. Too small an integration order leads to a loss of accuracy, while the error can be so large that the solution is meaningless or does not exist at all. When using the polynomial functions of the form of the integral (1.1), it can be represented as follows: ∫ ωă θωular (₽) γωular (₽) dran, (1.2) where θωital (μ) denotes the polynomial part of the sub -’function, which can be accurately integrated. If the 163 MAC in numerical integration in the MKE R-version Simal degree of complete polynoma in the function of the form is equal to P, it means that the expression BTψDBψ B (1.1) has a degree of 2 (p-1). Not the polynomial part of the γωular (cil) is Jacobian J, which cannot be accurate accurately. The number of integration points when using the squares of Gaussa-Dandra can be defined as ng = [3p-2 2] ×. . . × [3p - 2 2] ︸ ︷︷ D, (1.3) where P is the maximum degree in the final element. From the point of view of computational costs, integration in the three-dimensional region (D = 3) according to the Gaussa-Dandra scheme requires O (N3G) computing the values ​​of the functions and for high-order elements becomes significant. 2 Calculation of the matrix of the stiffness Consider the calculation of the typical element of the matrix of the rigidity: aij = dij ∫ ωx (∂∂i ∂x) t (∂∂j ∂x) dωx = (2.1) = dij ∫ ωi ∂ă ∂ă) t ( ∂∂j ∂ă ∂ă ∂x) Detj (perf) dωular = = ∫ ωicle {∂∂i ∂M1 ∂J ∂M1 K11 + ∂∂i ∂II1 ∂J ∂M2 k12 +. . .+ ∂∂i ∂acy3 ∂j ∂ă k33} dason, where ψi and ψj-I-I and J-th function of the form, respectively; Dij - a constant matrix of elasticity for this material; Klm (₽) = dij 3∑ i = 1 ∂ 8 ∂xl ∂ăxm detj (ă), l, m = 1, 2, 3. (2.2) 164 pp. Kopisov, I.V. Krasnoperov using subparaumetric elements and the corresponding display X (₽), expression (1.3) can be rewritten in the form of aij = dij ∫ ωurb θ (₽) γ (₽) dωular, where θ (ă) = ∂i ∂ ingl ∂j ∂ 12, γ (cil) = ∂ăxk ∂ Answers ∂xk detj (cil). Here ∂ ingl /∂xk is a derivative of the reverse display ă (x). The submarine function γ (lection) cannot be accurately integrated. Therefore, we will approximate it with polynomial basic functions, then for KLM (₽) it is possible to record γ (₽) = klm (₽) ≈ 8∑ i = 1 klmnψn, (2.3) where ψi is standard linear basic functions. To calculate the integral (2.1), it is necessary to calculate only the KLMN interpolation coefficients, which we will find from the ratio KLMN = [∂ ingi ∂xl ∂ăxm detj] (ăn, ă2n, mal3n), n = 1, 8, 8, 8, 8, 8, 8, 8, 8, 8, 8, 8, 8, 8, 8, 8, 8, 8, 8, 8, 8, 8, 8, 8, 8, 8, 8, 8, 8, 8, 8, 8, 8, 8, 8, 8, 8, 8, 8, 8, 8, 8, 8, 8, 8