The method of finding dispersion curves for the vector problem of the theory of dielectric waves 1 Dautov, G.P. Kornilov Kazan State University, Kazan 1 Introduction The problem of studying spectral tasks of the theory of dielectric waves and the development of numerical methods of solving them are currently currently (see, for example, [1.4–6]). The task under consideration in this paper in the initial setting is a parametric spectral task for the system of three differential equations of the second order on the plane. Two mathematical settings of the vector problem of the theory of dielectric waves, which, in our opinion, are not convenient for a numerical solution, are known. The first (see [4]), according to which the task is set on the entire plane R2 (task in an unlimited area) has two shortcomings. Their main ones are associated with the unlimited region, the other with the presence of a continuous spectrum of the task, which is not of practical interest. To overcome these difficulties in [1], another, equivalent setting of the problem (task in the limited area) was given, which is devoid of these deficiencies and is more suitable for a numerical solution. However, it is possible to get rid of the unlimited region due to the fact that a spectral task with a nonlinear entry of the spectral parameter into a non -cabin regional condition is obtained, the solution of which on large grids (more than 1000 knots) seems quite laborious. In this work, a new setting of the vector problem of the theory of dielectric waves and its numerical implementation, in which we get rid of the nonlinear entry of the spectral parameter, are proposed. By introducing a new parameter, a generalized task for its own values ​​was obtained with the support of the RFFI, project No. 03-01-06173 103 The method of finding dispersion curves. . . In a limited area with a linear entry of a spectral parameter. The new setting of the task allows both to explore the existence and basic properties of the dispersion curves, and build effective algorithms for their approximate definition. 2 Physical setting of the task optical waveguides is dielectric structures by which electromagnetic energy can spread in the visible and infrared areas of the spectrum. Real waves used in optical communication are flexible fibers made of transparent dielectric materials (glass or plastic). Information is transferred by a modulated light stream generated by LEDs or lasers. The transverse section of such fiber fibers usually consists of three areas: the central region - the core - is surrounded by a shell, which in turn is surrounded by a protective coating. In the core area, the refractive indicator N can be constant or change by cross section, the refractive indicator of the shell is usually constant in the cross section. To ensure guide properties, it is necessary that the refractive index of the core at least in part of the cross section exceeds the refractive indicator of the shell, while the main share of the transmitted energy spreads in the core and only its small part is along the shell. The coating is almost completely optically isolated from the core, therefore, with mathematical modeling, they usually neglect it and believe that the shell is unlimited outside. The study of dielectric waves is based on the determination of their own waves as electromagnetic waves of the species φ (x) Exp (i (ωt - βx3)), where x = (x1, x2) is a transverse coordinate vector, x3 - longitudinal coordinate, φ (x) - - The amplitude of oscillations, β is the longitudinal constant distribution, ω is the frequency of vibrations in time t. Of particular interest are superficial waves: their amplitude φ (x) exponally strives for zero at | x | → ∞, and constant distribution β is a material number. The main goal of mathematical research is 104 r.Z. Dautov, G.P. The construction and analysis of dispersion curves that describe the dependence between the parameters β and ω are rooted in which there are their own waves. 3 Mathematical setting of the task Task in an unlimited area. The dielectric waveguide is essentially a cylindrical body with a refractive index n. The cross -sectional area of ​​the waveguide, which is limited, is not necessarily a single -copied area on the plane R2, is denoted through ωi. The refractive indicator does not change along the X3 axis and depends only on the transverse coordinates: n = n (x). Regarding the refractive indicator, we also assume the following: 1. N = nĕ = const> 0 with x /∈ ωi; 2. N is a continuous function on ωi; 3. N+ = max {n (x), x ∈ ωi}> nurb. The spectral theory of waves is based on the system of homogeneous equations of Maxwell Rot E = −µ0 ∂H ∂T, Roth = ε∂e ∂T, (3.1) where E = E (X, X3, T), H = H (X, X3, t) - vectors of the tension of electric and magnetic fields with components E1, E2, E3 and H1, H2, H3, respectively; ε = ε0n2 - dielectric permeability, ε0 ​​and µ0 - dielectric and magnet