The resistance of the gratings of the bodies of the non -burial section with the small and moderate numbers of the Reynolds 1 A.B. Mazo, I.V. Morenko Institute of Mechanics and Engineering of the KNC RAS, Kazan proposed an iterative method for calculating the coefficient of the resistance according to the Nastye-Khoks model in variable current function-vortex-pressure. Calculation of the observation of cylinders with a cross section in the form of a square, plate, ellipse, oriented pope of rivers and along the stream, rhombus and the helm of Zhukovsky was carried out. In connection with the development of aviation technology, the detachment of the gratings of wing profiles in high speed modes was well studied, when the most important parameters of the current are slightly dependent on the number of Reynolds [1]. At the same time, the course of viscous fluid through the endless series of cylinders of various cross -sectional cylinders with small and moderate numbers of Reynolds has not been studied. The article discusses the RE range, in which both the forces of inertia and the forces of viscosity are essential, and a pair of laminar inpatient vortices is formed behind each of the cylinders. This current mode is characterized by the fact that the main hydrodynamic parameters significantly depend on Re. 1 The calculation method for calculating the tear-off margins of the lattice with a viscous liquid uses the Equinces of the Nastye-Khoks in the variables of the current function ψ-swirling ω [2–4]. When calculating the resistance coefficient C, the periodicity cell is distinguished-the current tube width H-and the task of inpatient symmetrical flow of single 1 work is numerically solved with the support of the RFFIF, projects No. 03-01-00015 and No. 03 01-96012 201 resistance of the grilles of the bodies. . . The cylinder of a single radius with the conditions of perfect sliding on the boundary lines of the current y = ± h/2. It is assumed that far from the obstacle (x → ± φ) is homogeneous, ψ = y, ω = 0. The border γ of the streamlined cylinder is the zero line of current ψ = 0, it also sets the stacking condition ∂/∂n = 0 , n - normal to γ. The stationary fields ψ and ω are determined by the method of establishing the solution of the evolutionary problem using the algorithms traditional for the equations of this class [2, 3]. At each step in time, the equation of the swirling and the Poisson equation for the current function are solved sequentially, and non -linear convective members in the ω equation are taken from the previous time layer. Approximation of the equations of Navestox and calculations are carried out by the final elements (MKE) first order on irregular nets thickening to the contour γ [4]. The numbering of the MKE nets nodes is optimized using the minimum degree algorithm, which provides the tape structure of the MKE linear matrices and minimizes computational costs when they convert them by the choletsky method. Since the desired functions change significantly only in the vicinity of the streamlined body, the use of small in this surroundings and sparse outside its MKES plays a decisive role in saving computational costs. Testing the algorithm on the sequence of gearing nets showed that sufficient accuracy of solving the problem is already achieved on a grid of 6500 triangles with the area of ​​large and small elements of about 100. For RE = 30 and temporary step τ = 0.05, an exit to a stationary solution occurs in 910 steps (t = 45.5), the account time on the Athlon-1700 computer is 17 seconds. To calculate the pressure, the known equation is used [2] ∆P = f (x, y) ≡ 2 [∂2ψ ∂x2 ∂2ψ ∂y2 - (∂2ψ ∂x∂y) 2]. (1.1) On all external boundaries of the estimated area D, the condition of the Neumann ∂p/∂n = 0. 202 A.B. Mazo, I.V. Morenko on the border of the streamlined body is set by the condition of the pieron [2] x, y ∈ γ: ∂p ∂n = 1 re · ∂ω ∂s. (1.2) Here S is the tangent to γ. On the left border (far up the stream), the condition p = P1 = 0, and on the right border (far downstairs) - the condition of the Neumann Method of solving the problem (1.1) - (1.2) is described in detail in the work [5]. The calculations showed that the pressure changes significantly only in the small vicinity of the grate, and it is constantly outside of it, and the pressure of the pressure P1 - P2 = −P2 determines the coefficient C resistance to the lattice. On the other hand, the coefficient C can be calculated by integrating along the streamlined contour of the forces of viscosity and pressure [3]: C = (Cf + CP) /H = = ∫ γ [re -1ω cos (ŝ, x) + p sin (ŝ, x )] ds/h. (1.3) This allows you to design an iterative algorithm for calculating the resistance coefficient. The condition of the neumann on the left border of the estimated region is replaced by the condition of the conductor p = p1 = 0. The solution to the problem (1.1), (1.2) with the condition of the neuman at the right end is made as the initial approximation. In subsequent iterations, at each step, the formula (1.3) is used for the resistance coefficient C, which clarifies pressure P2 on the right border and solve the problem with the condition of the airship P = P2. To achieve convergence, 3 - 4 iterations are enough (accuracy in determining C about 10–4). 2 Testing of the numerical algorithm should be noted that the flow of the circular cylinder is an unlimited stream is a classic task of hydromechanics, therefore