Heterogeneous environments V.S. Fedotovsky, T.N. Vereshchagins of the GNC of the Russian Federation-Physico-Energy Institute, Obninsk Fedotovsky@ippe.obninsk.ru Introduction. The dynamics of heterogeneous media includes a wide range of problems and areas of research. These include hydrodynamics of multi -phase media, hydrodynamics of porous media, composite materials mechanics and suspensions rheology. In these sections, conditionally isolated depending on the type and structure of heterogeneous media, the nature of the effects and the currents or deformations caused by them, their research methods and specific approaches were formed. One of these directions includes vibro -acoustic dynamics of heterogeneous media. Unlike the dynamics of homogeneous media, where oscillatory and wave processes, at least in linear approaches, have been well studied, only individual private tasks are currently investigated in the dynamics of heterogeneous media. However, with some restrictions, the description of the oscillatory and wave processes in heterogeneous media of various types can be generalized if we apply a continued approach. This can be done when the characteristic scale of the relative movements of the components is significantly smaller, and the length of the waves is significantly larger than the scale of the heterogeneous medium heterogeneity. In this case, the heterogeneous environment can be considered as a pseudo -nodor continuum with some effective properties that take into account the processes of dynamic interaction of components. The use of the concept of effective dynamic properties of heterogeneous media greatly simplifies the solution of many vibro -acoustic problems and gives them a transparent physical meaning. As in the dynamics of homogeneous media, the main properties of heterogeneous media are inertial, viscous and elastic properties. However, unlike homogeneous media, the effective properties of heterogeneous media are discussed below are dynamic, in the sense that they depend not only on the mechanical properties and geometric characteristics of the components, but also on the processes of their dynamic interaction. In addition, the dynamic properties of heterogeneous media are interdependent. So, for example, Fedotovsky V.S., Vereshchagin T.N. 134 One of the main properties is an effective dynamic density, depends on the densities and the elastic and viscous properties of the components, and effective dynamic elasticity depends on the densities of the components. One of the types of heterogeneous media, in which the effects of interfacial interaction play a significant role, are dispersed media formed by liquid and particles-into accounts (solid particles, drops of other liquid or gas bubbles). The interfacial dynamic interaction of particles and fluids in such media is associated with their relative progressive fluctuations, and in heterogeneous media with inclusions-cyllets (in rod systems, composites and bubbles), with the resonance of progressive or volumetric vibrations of inclusions. Let us first consider the basic patterns of hydrodynamic effects on the bodies that make progressive fluctuations. 1. Outings of the bodies in the liquid The task of hydrodynamic effects of the ideal fluid on the body is reduced to the calculation of the attached mass, based on the equation of the movement of the Euler () 1, u u u p g t ρ + ∇ = - ∇ + ∂ (1.1) and the effect of viscous fluid with the small numbers of the rainolds We determine based on the Stox of the non -stationary movement 21, u p u g t so ρ ∂ = - ∇ + ∇ + ∂ (1.2) 1.1. The movement of the sphere in the perfect fluid. On the body moving progressively with a variable speed () V T in the inconsistent fluid, the force F MDV dt =, depending on the disturbances introduced into the liquid or on the attached mass of the liquid 22 /m e v =, where the kinetic energy E is calculated by the distribution of the speed field ( ) U R as an integral throughout the volume of fluctuations and waves in heterogeneous media 135 2 3 () 2 e u r d r ρ = ∫ (1.3) or as an integral on the surface of a moving body S for potential movement of the ideal fluid, 2 d e ds dn ϕ ship = - ∫ (1.4) where ∗ is the potential, n is normal to the surface of the body. In turn, the potential that determines the velocity field is from the solution of the Laplace equation 2 0ices, which must satisfy the components of the velocity of the fluid and body normal to the surface with the boundary conditions of the equality. In particular, with the progressive movement of the sphere with the speed of V, the velocity potential in spherical coordinates has the form of 3 2 COS, 2 A V R θ θ = - (1.5) And the attached mass is 3 (2 3) Aπρ, which is half the mass of the fluid displaced by the sphere of liquid . 1.2. Fluctuations in the sphere in viscous fluid. With small progressive fluctuations in the sphere, the force of hydrodynamic exposure is from the solution of the Stox equation (1.2) () Cos cos sin, rr rf p dfθθ σ σ θ = - + - ∫ (1.6) where the components of the tensor of viscous stresses have the form 2 rrr u η R. σ ∂ = ∂, 1 r θ θ r u u u η r r r r r r σ ∂ ⎞ ⎞ ⎞ = + ⎜ ⎟∂ ⎟∂ ⎠ ⎠, (1.7) and integration is carried out on the surface of the sphere. As a result, we have [1], dv f m v dt ă =