Development of methods of numerical modeling of the dynamics of fine particles in the near -Earth space E.K. Kolesnikov, S.V. Chernov Research Institute of Mathematics and Mechanics. Academician V.I. Smirnova St. Petersburg State University 1. Dynamic model describing the movement of spherical microparticles in the near-Earth space movement in the near-Earth space (OKP) of microparticles (MC) with the size of ∼ 0.01 ÷ 100 μm, characteristic of fine-dispersed products of solid-fuel rocket engines (TTRD) , is determined by the influence of a whole complex of forces of various physical nature. For microparticles with a size of 1 <μm (the most numerous ejection fraction), the specified complex of forces includes: • gravitational forces acting on the MCH from the side of the Earth’s gravitational field, as well as the gravitational fields of the moon and sun; • electrodynamic forces caused by the interaction of the charge of the magnetic and electric fields of the near -Earth space, which are induced on the MCH; • the force of solar pressure; • The resistance force that occurs during the flow of a microparticle with a stream of background gas. A particularly serious problem is the need to take into account the impact on the movement of the MCh of electrodynamic forces, which is associated with the difficulty of determining the electrical charge of the microparticles, which is formed as a result of the process of collective interaction between the MCH with the flows of charged particles from the background space plasma and the flows of secondary charged particles issued by the surface. microparticles. Due to the spatial heterogeneity of the parameters of the near -Earth plasma and the conditions of the illumination of the MCH in the OKP, the electrical charge of the microparticles changes along its trajectory, and the value of the charge at a given time is characterized by Kolesnikov EK, Chernov S.V. The 56th time of charging MCH depends on the physical conditions at the points of the near -Earth space corresponding to both the current and previous positions of the microparticles on the trajectory. Therefore, in the general case, when solving the problems of the dynamics of microparticles, the equations describing the process of charging MCH in cosmic plasma should be solved together with the equations of the microparticle movement in the OKP. In the inertial reference system with the beginning in the center of the Earth (not rotating along with the Earth), the movement of the microparticle will be described by an equation of 2 0. .2. B E Gr Gr Prigons Lor Lor SD SOPR d M Dt = + + + + R f f f f f f f f f (1) Forces 0 0 s gr m v = - ∇f and. . . The trigger prunes V = - ∇f are gravitational forces associated with the first (central) harmonic of the potential of the gravitational field of the Earth Z0V and its indignation. Varism. On low near -earth orbits, the main contribution to. Vosmv gives spherical harmonics () 2 220 20 3 3 3sin 1 .2 C r v r µ ⊕ ⊕ ⊕ = - (2) according to [1] numerical coefficients B (2) have values ​​3 20 1.09808 10c-= ⋅, 203.98590 10µ⊕ = ⋅ cm 3-2, 86.363553 10r⊕ = ⋅ cm. Appendix. Voyism with the potential of 20V corresponds to the so-called so-called. spheroidal model of the Earth. Gravitational disturbances due to the influence of the fields of the moon and the sun play a significant role only in high orbites. In low orbits, the indicated disturbances can be neglected. Forces, B anger q c ⎡ ⎤ ⎤ ⎣ ⎦ ⎦f v (3) E l q = f e (4) Development of methods of numerical modeling of particles dynamics ... 57 - respectively, the magnetic and electrical component of the forces of the Lorentz, due to the interaction of the charge of microparticles q moving at a speed d dt = r v, with a magnetic zb and electric and electro -e -Earth space spaces. In a first approximation, geomagnetic and geoelectric fields can be set using expressions, z zd = b b (5), z zkr end = +e e (6) where 3 s z d z m r ⎛ ⎞⋅ = ∇⎜ ⎟ ⎟ω⎝ ⎠ R B ω (7) - a field of magnetic dipole located in the center of the Earth with the moment of ZM, oriented opposite to the axis of the Earth's rotation (Zω - vector of the angular speed of rotation of the Earth); () 1Z.ZKOR ZCA = × × E R BPi (8) - an electric field of shortation, and Zkkonve - an electrical field of convection, which can be approximated by a constant electric field directed from the morning side of the magnetosphere and depending on geomagnetic activity. The force of the SDF of the solar pressure on the microparticle is determined by the formula () 2, PRSD Q n R p c π = f r s (9) where n is the density of the flow of solar radiation energy equal in the orbit of the Earth 61.36 10⋅ Erg/cm2s; S is a single vector directed from the sun; () P R - the function “Shadows” equal to 0 in the shadow area of ​​Kolesnikov EK, Chernov S.V. 58 lands and 1 outside this area. In (9) PRQ - the effectiveness of radiation pressure on the microparticle, averaged in the solar spectrum. For the values ​​of the radius of the microparticles 1R <μm, commensurate with the length of the waves in the area of ​​the maximum of the spectrum of solar radiation (Max 0.555λ = μm), the correct task of the effectiveness of the pressure of the radiation PRQ is an independent and rather complex task. The most currently developed method is