The model of a two -phase environment in the mechanics of the deformable solid body V.P. Myasnikov, M.A. Guzev Institute of Automation and Control of the Far Eastern Administrative Offenses of the Russian Academy of Sciences, 690041 Vladivostok Introduction. Many processes occurring during the deformation of solid bodies are accompanied by their phase transformations. From the point of view of mechanics, the emergence of areas of the new phase is considered by various researchers as the appearance of the surfaces of the deformation rupture, which formulate kinematic, power and thermodynamic conditions [1]. Moreover, the wording of these conditions implies the existence of certain boundaries of the phase section. The formation of one or more phases is a consequence of physico-chemical transformations in the material and can occur in all its volume, therefore, to model such processes, several continuums and the use of formalism of heterogeneous media mechanics are required. The recording of the balance of saving equations alone in the most general case does not currently be of particular interest for the mechanics of the mixtures, because the specific application of these equations is associated with the use of certain hypotheses on the interaction of phases. The substances that make up this material can participate in the proceedings of physico-chemical transformations or to be in physico-chemical equilibrium. The speed of physico-chemical reactions in the material depends on its chemical affinity [2], which is determined by the chemical potentials of substances and stichiometric coefficients. In particular, Gibbs showed [3] that for a soluble solid body in a state of mechanical and chemical balance with its solutions at different pressure, the condition of the equality of chemical potentials in contacting phases should be fulfilled. At the same time, the equilibrium conditions obtained by him show that the introduced chemical potential of the motionless component depends on the choice of direction in space (the position of the border of the solid body). On the other hand, the directed nature of physico-chemical transformations in the materials depends on their mechanical state, which determines the Myasnikov V.P., Gusev M.A. 114 Tenasor voltage as the function of spatial coordinates and time. This forced chemists, starting from the 60s of the XX century [4] (see also links), to consider the chemical potential and chemical affinity as a tensor object. In the mechanics of the deformable solid body, the tensor of chemical potential was introduced in the description of phase transitions [1]. In the framework of the ratios of equilibrium thermodynamics and isothermal approximation in [4], equations are obtained that connect the tensor of chemical potential with tensors of stress and deformation. The generalization of the obtained ratios for dissipative processes is given in the proposed work. This consideration is carried out on the example of constructing a class of two -phase models of a deformable solid with arbitrary deformations. The construction scheme for these models is a direct generalization of the classical formalism of nonequilibrium thermodynamics and includes a model of the type of super -library helium, an ideal -plastic body and two -phase filtration as the limiting cases. 1. The main ratios of a two -phase continuous environment consider us a deformable solid body, in which the processes of mechanical dissipation are possible, leading to the appearance of the second phase in the material. First, we will write out the balance sheet equations for a two -phase continuous environment. For such an environment, the law of conservation of mass 0, k j t x ρ∂ ∂ + = ∂ ∂ (1) in which the flow of mass is equal to the sum of the mass flows associated with each of the phases: KKK VVJ 2211 ρ + = (according to the repeating indices here, then the summation is meant further than the summation ). The coefficients of 1ρ and 2ρ are the densities of each phase and their sum is equal to the density of the material: .21 ρρ + = the law of preservation of the impulse is represented by an equation, 0 = ∂ π∂ + ∂ k iki xt j (2) Model of a two -phase environment in the mechanics of a deformable solid body 115 in which IKKIKIIK VVVv σρ -+= π 222111 is a tensor of pulse flow density. We will write the equations of conservation of energy and entropy in the form, 0, 0 ≥ = ∂ ∂ + ∂ ∂ ∂ ∂ ∂ ∂ ∂ ∂ ∂ ∂ ∂ ∂ dd x j t s x q t e k k k ρ (3) where KQ and KJ flux vector components and flux vector components Entropy, respectively, D is a dissipative function. To the formulated equations, it is necessary to add an equation for the speed of KV2, which we will write in the form of .22 2 k i k i k i x v v = ∂ ∂ + ∂ ∂ (4) in the right part (4) we introduced a source for the second phase. The following shows that the structure of this source is determined by the requirement of the representation of dissipative function in the form of a bilinear form of thermodynamic forces and flows. Since we are considering a deformable body, it is necessary to formulate an equation for the tensor of deformation. If we consider each phase separately, then within the framework of the classical model of the elastic environment, they suggest [5] that the tensor of deformation for it coincides with the Almanxi tensor of complete deformation 0, 2 1 = ∂ + ∂ ∂ ⎟ ⎠ ⎞ ⎜ ⎜ ⎝ ∂ ∂ ∂ ∂ ∂ ∂ ∂ ⎛ ⎛ ⎛ ⎛ ⎛ ⎛ ⎛ ⎛ ⎛ ⎛ ⎛ ⎛ ⎛ ⎛ ⎛ ⎛ ⎛ ⎛ ⎛ ⎛ ⎛ ⎛ ⎛ ⎛ ⎛ ⎛ ⎛ ⎛ ⎛ ⎛ ⎛ ⎛ ⎛ ∂ ∂∂ ∂∂ - = k a k aa ji aa ijij x v tdt d xx a ββ βββumbia