Stress orientation as the basis of the productions of new types of tasks of the mechanics of the continuous environment of Sh.A. Mukhamediev Institute of Physics of the Earth RAS, Moscow Shamil@ifz.ru L.V. Nikitin Institute of Physics of the Earth RAS, Moscow nik@ifz.ru A.N. Galybin University of Western Australia, Perth Galybin@cyllene.uwa.edu.au Introduction. The traditional setting of the problem of the mechanics of the continuous environment implies the choice of determining relations for the body material ω and, depending on the type of task, the task of the regional conditions on the part or on the entire surface of the γ of the body. In technical applications, the determining ratios of the material are introduced phenomenologically or using the microstructure, and the values ​​of the coefficients included in the determining ratios are experimentally. The task of the regional conditions usually does not cause fundamental difficulties and is dictated by the problem. There are various ways to evaluate the adequacy of the decision received, therefore, the adopted assumptions. At the same time, there are a number of problems in which the insufficient set of source data makes it difficult to classical setting the task of mathematical modeling of a stress state. In particular, the geodynamic tasks of determining the fields of intracurricular stresses have essential features. Firstly, the tests of rock samples cannot provide reliable information about the determining ratios on the spatial-time lithosphere. Secondly, the boundary conditions have to be chosen speculatively, based on indirect considerations. In particular, the model assessments of the forces, driving stoves may differ by an order of magnitude with the corresponding differences in the resulting results for voltage fields. The orientation of stresses as the basis of the productions of new types of tasks ... 85 on the other hand, both for geodynamic tasks and for other applications, experimental information about some elements of a stress state within the studied area is available. Usually, with a classic approach to mathematical modeling of a stress state, this information is compared with the calculated results and, with their satisfactory coincidence, a conclusion is concluded about the adequacy of setting the tasks of the mechanics of the continuous environment. This work shows the shortcomings of this approach and propose fundamentally different methods that use experimental data about elements of a stress state (mainly on orientation of the main stress) directly as the initial information for solving the problem. 1. Data on the orientation of the main stresses and the traditional approach to solving the tasks of the mechanics of the continuous environment, we consider the task of determining the flat field of the tensor voltage (T-field) in a homogeneous isotropic elastic environment with the main voltages (TGN), i.e. curves tangenting to which at each point are oriented in the direction of one of the two main voltages of 1t, 2T and which form a curvilinear orthogonal grid in the region. Historically, this task first arose in the framework of photomability at the beginning of the twentieth century [1]. In a loaded transparent model, in conditions of a generalized flat stress state, lines of a constant value of 1 2T T - (isochromes, in fact, the lines of the maximum voltage), as well as isoclin - the lines along which 1T and 2T retain the unchanging direction. TGN is obtained from Izoclin using graphic rebuilding [1, 2]. In Fig. 1 shows the painting of TGN, borrowed from the book of Frokht [1], and in Fig. 2 - a fragment of the corresponding distribution of isochrome. Fields of voltages 1t and 2T, taking into account experimental information about the difference of 1 2T T- and boundary conditions (i.e., known values ​​1t and 2T at the edges of the model) are determined by integration along the TGN of the equilibrium recorded in the form of lam Maxwell (excluding mass forces) [1, 2] Muhamediev Sh.A., Nikitin L.V., Galybin A.N. 86 1 2 2 2 1 2 1 2 2 1 0, 0. T T T T S R R R ∂ - ∂ - + = + = ∂ ∂ ∂ ∂ ∂ ∂ ∂ ∂ ∂ ∂ ∂ ∂ ∂ ∂ ∂ ∂ ∂ ∂ ∂ ∂ ∂ ∂ ∂ ∂ ∂ ∂ ∂ ∂ ∂ ∂ ∂ ∂ ∂ ∂ ∂ ∂ ∂ ∂ – – – – – – – – – – – – – – – – – – – ∂ ∂ ∂ ∂ ∂ ∂ ∂ ∂ ∂ ∂ ∂ ∂ ∂ ∂ ∂ ∂ ∂ ∂ ∂ ∂ lengths are 1r and 2r trajectories here. . For the elastic environment, the sum of the main voltages of 1 2T T+ is a harmonic function, i.e. () 021 =+ ∆ TT (∆ - Laplace operator). (2) Fig. 1. A fragment of the circuit of the trajectories of the main stresses implemented during the bend of the photo -anguish beam [1]. A, b -the special points of the field of the first kind: a -point z -tip, B -point Z -Tipa; C is a special point of the second kind (see text in section 4) stress orientation as the basis of the productions of new types of tasks ... 87 ratio (1), (2) represent a complete system of equations of the flat task of the theory of elasticity in stresses. Nevertheless, equation (2) in the photomability when the field is not used, its execution is checked only by the aposteriori. Rice. 2. The picture of isochrome observed in the part of the region shown in Fig. 1 as shown below (see Section 5), the task of the photo -temporality when using all the equations of the system (1), (2) ceases to be marginal and does not need to integrate UR