Large -scale dynamic structures in the turbulent border layer of Yu.I. Clopkov Moscow Physics and Technical Institute khlopkov@falt.ru 1. History of the issue. Currently, a colossal amount of data on the dynamics of the turbulent movement of an incompressible liquid has been obtained in the border layer on the plate, in which structural elements of the interaction of the streamlined surface with the flow were found. Experimental data is obtained by different researchers with different methods and reveal some common features of this interaction. The time has come for a deep theoretical understanding of these results and the construction of global theories of turbulent movement on their basis. Below, the main results of experimental studies are listed very compressed, which, in our opinion, can be adopted when constructing mathematical models. The decomposition of the non -stationary movement was first proposed by Reynolds in 1894 [1]. The values ​​describing the current were divided into medium and fluctuating parts, and after substituting the Nastye-Khoks equation, the system of equations, identical in the form of the initial system, with the exception of convective stresses that arise from the contested works of fluctuations of speed, was obtained. In order to close the system of equations, it is necessary to have a ratio between convective stresses and a field of medium speed. Until recently, many theoretical and experimental studies were focused on finding connections that would be applicable to an increasing variety of average currents with the hope of finding a universal ratio for “turbulent fluid”. The hope of a universal model of turbulence was gradually replaced by a growing confidence that the formulation of an adequate theory requires a significantly better understanding of the physics of the turbulent course. For the researcher of 1920 - 1930, turbulence was a significantly stochastic phenomenon, which has a well -defined and reproducible average, which was imposed on Stohas Klopkov Yu.I. 202 Tel fluctuating speed field. The movement was characterized by a wide area of ​​scales, limited only by full size of the current. This picture of the stochastic elements of the course of different scales led to the emergence of semi -empirical theories of Prandtl [2] and Taylor [3], in which convective stresses were associated with the average stream using effective vortex vision (introduced by the bead in 1877 [4]) or mixing lengths . Consideration of the evolution of the spectrum of homogeneous and isotropic turbulence led to important observation that the energy -containing structures of isotropic turbulence do not depend directly on the value of the viscosity of the liquid. It turned out that with a fairly large number of Reynolds, when the liquid is obviously turbulent, energy -containing structures are similar to all values ​​of the Renolds numbers. In addition to this, it was also noted that if the number of Reynolds is quite large, the zone of dissipation and the generation zone of turbulent energy are greatly separated in the space of wave numbers. In this case, small -scale movement is in a state of local isotropic equilibrium. The new element was added to the physical picture of turbulence by basket [5] and Townsend [6], which showed that the external boundaries of turbulent shift currents, especially in jets and traces, are only in a state of turbulence. In the mid-50s, physical ideas successfully developed to a state that can be characterized by the following picture (Townsend [8]), connecting the laminar under the basket and cystler [7] with the field of turbulent fluid of almost homogeneous intensity. The dynamic characteristics of this field are similar to the characteristics of isotropic turbulence. The turbulent liquid is driven by a slow convective demolition of the totality of large vortices, whose sizes are comparable to the width of the flow and much larger than the scale of vortex containing most of turbulent energy. In the external in relation to the turbulent surface of the section of the region, the movement is unsteady. In this area, an unenvalled potential course is induced by the movement of fluid near the border. Large -scale dynamic structures in the border layer ... 203 Townsend considered large vortices and small -scale turbulence as the main feature of a double structure and emphasized the importance of large vortices during the transfer process. He also emphasized that large whirlwinds should take quasi -iteminism form, and tried to draw a picture of a large -scale vortex movement quite realistic for that time. An attempt to create such a picture usually took the form of conclusions based on the disposal of spatial correlation tensor (35] () () () () (),,, I J I IR x u x t u x thes ctor = + Fig. 1. The border layer on the flat plate (from the album [31]) measured in the Euler reference system. Extensive correlation measurements [9 - 12] in various turbula