) Some tasks of the theory of conformal displays of surfaces consider the issues of existence, uniqueness and stability relative to small deformations of conformal display of irregular surfaces. Some estimates of the relative distance of M. A. Lavrentiev and assessments of the distortion of the area with such display are given. Applications are indicated to the problem of compliance of the boundaries. Yu. V. Obnosov (Kazan, Yobnosov@ksu.ru) Effective characteristics of some periodic multiphase heterogeneous structures in the work considered various dense parquet coatings of the plane. Physical processes in the corresponding pieces of 37 norn-heterogeneous structures are described by the vector field v (z) = (vx, vy), satisfying in each homogeneous component ωk, conditions ∇ · vk = 0, ∇ × vk = 0, z ∈ ωk. On the lines of the section of heterogeneous components of the environment are supposed to be continuous normal and proportional tangential components of the vector V (Z). In the language of a comprehensive analysis, the issue is reduced to the construction of a piece-head-sulmphic function V (Z) = VX-IVY = VK (Z), Z ∈ ωK, according to the regional condition of the generalized task of Riemann (Rimani problem). The coefficients of the regional condition in this way are expressed in a certain way through parameters characterizing physical (resistance/conductivity, hall parameter) and the geometric properties of the isotropic components of the structure. For a number of model double-proped structures, the solution of the corresponding tasks of Rlinear conjugation can be obtained in a closed form. The latter, in turn, allows you to obtain in explicitly analytical expressions for effective parameters (conductivity, dissipation) that characterize the environment as a whole as a homogeneous one. The study of the extreme properties of the resulting ostered parameters, depending on the physical and geometric characteristics of the environment, completes the work. The work was supported by the regional grant of the RFF-Ant (projects No. 03-01-96193, No. 05-5.1-265/2004F (05)). D.V. Prokhorov (Saratov, ProKhorovdv@info.sgu.ru) Geometric and analytical methods of the problem of coefficients of one -leaf functions explores smooth -ocated properties and special points of the boundary hyperplane ∂VN of the set VN = {(A2,., AN): F ∈ S} values ​​of the coefficients of class S functions consisting of holomorphic one -leafy in a single circle of functions F (Z) = Z + A2Z2 +. . . . Particular attention is paid to the description of the character of the point of point (2,., N) ∈ ∂VN delivered by the function of the kebe K (Z) = Z/(1 - Z) 2. A similar analysis is subjected to many values ​​of the coefficients of limited functions F ∈ S. 38