) Parallel schemes for multinthum multiplying the report discusses one of the tasks arising when constructing a computer algebra system on a multiprocessor computing cluster. This is the task of constructing parallel schemes for calculating the work of polynomas of several variables. The schemes of the Karatsuba algorithm and the standard algorithm are considered. For a standard multiplication algorithm, the scheme (a + a) (b + b) = ab + ab + ab + ab where a, b, a, B - respectively the oldest and youngest part of polynomas with lexicographic streamlining of monomas is used. For the algorithm of multiplication of karatsuba, the circuit (Axn + b) (CXN + D) = ACX2N + ((A + B) (C + D) - AC - BD) XN + BD is used to recurs. N - 1 according to X, X is the senior variable of changeable polynomas. In the diagram of the algorithm for multiplication of karatsuba there are three multiplications, and in the diagram of the standard algorithm - four. Therefore, the scheme of the algorithm for multiplication of karatsuba can be represented in the form of a thorns, and the diagram of a standard algorithm is in the form of a tetranar tree. Each support corresponds to the multiplication of the corresponding polynomial fragments. The task of constructing a parallel computing scheme is formulated as follows. It is required for specified polynomes and for a given number of processors to solve the problem of fixing the heights of such a tree behind processors. In this case, it is necessary to ensure uniform loading of all processors and minimize the number of shipments between processors. The report discusses possible approaches to solving this problem. Note that each of the schemes has its own area of ​​application. For dense polynomas, the Karatsuba algorithm has an advantage. For sparse polynomas, the standard algorithm is preferable, since the Karatsuba algorithm uses additional additions, which increase the number of non -zero monomas of intermediate dubbins. 47 Work was carried out with partial support of the Ministry of Education grants (project No. 02-2.0-98), RFFF (project No. 04-07-90268-B), “Universities of Russia” (project No. 04.01.051) and “Scientific Potential” (Project No. 2303-24). E.V. Gaylit (Novosibirsk, regina@math.nsc.ru) generalized design models and recursive hierarchies in this work examine machine-oracular modeling of the second-order arithmetic and some of its fragments, as well as fragments of the axiomatic theory of sets close to them. This means the construction of generalized design models that consist of objects calculated with some oracle. In this work: 1. Through a generalization of the pulsating process proposed by N.V. Belyakin, such an ordinal numbering is built that the totality of m | ν | ν total functions, computable with the ilistered clinian oracle H | ν | ν, E1, forms a model of arithmetic second order. 2. Such autonomous relative to E2 (hyper-hyper-jump) is built that the totality of m | µ | µ of total functions gives a model for a two-quarter fragment of second-order arithmetic. 3. It is proved that no E2-autonomous numbering does not give a model of all second-order arithmetic. L and T R A T R A 1. Gylit E.V. Arithmetic of the second order and pulsating hierar of hiya // Sib. mat. Journal. - 2002. - T. 43. - No. 1. - P. 33–40. 2. Gaillite E.V. Modeling the pulsating process // Algebra and Logic. - 2003. - T. 42. - No. 6. - P. 641–654. 3. Gaillit E.V. Arithmetic of the second order and autonomous calculation of the PERSONAL // SIB. mat. Journal. - 2003. - T. 44. - No. 2. - P. 303–310. 48