Some issues of poorly combinatorial and implicit selector sets below are a continuation of the studies published in the work [1] and [2]. In [1], the question remained open: is it true that the class is weak X∨y∨z-Cks by the sets is strictly contained in the class of weakly XY ∨ XZ ∨ YZ-CX sets. A positive answer to this question is given. In [2] it was asked whether it was true that the class is weak X ∨ y-hens of sets is strictly contained in the class of weakly XYZ ∨ XYZ ∨ XY Z ∨ XYZ-EIS. It turns out that the answer to this question is negative. Let βm = ∨ 1≤ I≤m+1 x1 x2. . . XI -1 XI+1. . . XM+1 and K (βM)-the class is weak βM-heating of the sets. It is proved that k (βm) ⊂ k (βm+1), as well as that if β is a monotonous boulevium, a function that depends on no more than four variables, then k (x, y) ⊂ k (xy ∨ xz ∨ yz ) ⊂ k (u (xy ∨ xz ∨ yz) ∨ xyz) ⊂ k (x), and everywhere the inclusions are strict. 53 L and T R A T R A 1. Degtev A.N., Ivanov D.I. On poorly combinatorial and selector sets // Algebra and Logic. - 1998. - T. 37. - No.. 6. - S. 627–636. 2. Degtev A.N., Ivanov D.I. On the poorly combinatorial and selector sets of dimension 3 // Discret. matte. - 1999. - T. 2. - No. 3. - P. 126–132. Sh. T. Ishmukhametov (Ulyanovsk, Ishmukhametov@ulsu.ru) about incomparable elements in the tier degrees of the Yershov hierarchy, we will study the problem of the existence of incomparable elements in the lower cones of tucal degrees, limited by many from the Hyrarchy of Yershov. Let A - Nonal Turing degree. Through D (≤ a), we denote the lower cone of T-spons, limited by the degree A, i.e., the totality of T-spectacles, smaller or equal A. Consider the attendance of the problem of the existence of incomparable elements in the lower cones, limited to recursive-permitted degrees. Theorem 1. In the lower cone D (≤ a-r.) For any intermediate degree, there is R.P. degree with <a, incomparable with b. This theorem is proved using the priority method with endless violations. Let the cone D (≤ a) are limited by the degree belonging to the second level of the Ershov hierarchy, i.e., containing the difference in recursive and redesigned sets. In this case, the analogue of theorem 1 can no longer be proved using only 0 ′ ′ methods. Suppose that the opposite case is made, that is, in the lower cone D (≤ a) there is a degree with <a, such that for it in the cone D (≤ a) there are no incomparable elements. Then the following property is performed: theorem 2. Let in the lower cone D (≤ a-r. P.) there is an intermediate degree B, comparable to any degree C <a. Then B - recursively listed. Finally, the last theorem claims that if the degree A is 54