(UAE)  SEA WATER INTRUSION PROBLEM: MATHEMATICAL MODELS VERSUS FIELD STUDIES  New analytical solutions are presented to a problem of steady-state abrupt interface sea water intrusion into a coastal unconfined aquifer with uniformly distributed losses along a phreatic surface. Two free surfaces (encroachment tongue and groundwater table) intersect with a horizontal water table of the resting sea water intruded. Conformal mappings of the physical domain and of an unknown complex potential domain onto an auxiliary half-plane are obtained by a modified method of PolubarinovaKochina, which is mathematically reduced to a vector Riemann boundaryvalue problem similarly to Kacimov and Obnosov (2001). The tongue does not originate at the beach slope, as in standard models, i.e. groundwater is discharging not into the sea but through the water table only. Free surfaces are found for different values of losses, densities of the two fluids, sea water and incident groundwater hydraulic heads. Comparisons with the Dupuit-Forcheimer (hydraulic) model based on a nonlinear ODE are done. Geophysical surveying based on AC-voltage pulses is conducted in Al-Hail site, Oman. Later shallow boreholes were drilled and water samples were analysed physically and chemically. The results confirmed complete salinisation of the near-shore zone and the mathematical model. Surface geophysical study (using DC-sources) in Wadi Ham, UAE showed that sufficiently far from the beach line shallow groundwater is still not salinised. Practical implications of geophysics and mathematics in catchment-scale groundwater management are discussed.  Acknowledgements. This study was supported by the joint Sultan Qaboos University - United Arab Emirates University collaboration project CL/SQU-UAEU/0/3/01 and by the Russian Foundation for Basic Research, grants N 03-01-00015, 03-01-96193 and N 05-5.1-265/2003F(05)-TAS.  R E F E R E N C E S 1. Kacimov A. R., Obnosov Yu. V. Analytical solution for a sharp  interface problem in sea water intrusion into a coastal aquifer // Proceedings Royal Society London A. – 2001. – V. 457(2016). – P. 3023–3038.  112