) The balance of strongly coherent graphs with scales in half -groups let S - half -group, G - oriented graph, each arc of whose weight is assigned - the element of the semi -group S. The weight of the path in the column is naturally determined - as a work of arches along this path. The graph is called K-Balanced if the weight of any path of the length is no more than k in it is unambiguously determined by the length of the path and its initial and final peaks. The graph is called balanced if it is K-Balanced at any K. Examples of balanced graphs are the graphs of the final groups, the columns of the iconic portraits of indecent complex matrices, satisfying the condition ‖AK‖ = ‖AF at all k, where ‖A‖ = max i ∑ j | aij | - Famous matrix norm. If for a certain natural K, each K-Balanced, strongly coherent N-Varic column with weights in the half-group S is a balanced, then the smallest of these Ks are designated through ωSc (n, s). Theorem 1. Each (N2-2N + 2)-Balanced strongly bonds of the 52-ve-naval graph with weights in the half-group S are balanced, that is, the inequality ωSc (n, s) ≤ n2-2n + 2. (1) theorem 2 is fair . Assessment (1) is accurate for all values ​​N and only when the semi -group S satisfies at least one of the following conditions: 1) the orders of its elements are not limited in aggregate; 2) There is an underground T ⊆ S, containing more than one element and a monoid. D. I. Ivanov (Tyumen, ivanow@dmitry.ru) about some issues of poorly combinatorial and implicit selector sets below are a continuation of studies published in the works [1] and [2]. In [1], the question remained open: is it true that the class is weak X∨y∨z-Cks by the sets is strictly contained in the class of weakly XY ∨ XZ ∨ YZ-CX sets. A positive answer to this question is given. In [2] it was asked whether it was true that the class is weak X ∨ y-hens of sets is strictly contained in the class of weakly XYZ ∨ XYZ ∨ XY Z ∨ XYZ-EIS. It turns out that the answer to this question is negative. Let βm = ∨ 1≤ I≤m+1 x1 x2. . . XI -1 XI+1. . . XM+1 and K (βM)-the class is weak βM-heating of the sets. It is proved that k (βm) ⊂ k (βm+1), as well as that if β is a monotonous boulevium, a function that depends on no more than four variables, then k (x, y) ⊂ k (xy ∨ xz ∨ yz ) ⊂ k (u (xy ∨ xz ∨ yz) ∨ xyz) ⊂ k (x), and everywhere the inclusions are strict. 53