) The manned algorithm for calculating the attached matrix in the switching region The best method of calculating the attached matrix and determinant in the switching region is the recursive method [1], which has the complexity of matrix multiplication. This method involves the use of ring operations and operations to reduce the ring on the non -equal element of the ring. It is assumed that even angular miners of the matrix are different from zero. This imposes significant restrictions on the practical application of the recursive method. A real report is devoted to the removal of this restriction and generalization of the recursive method in case of an arbitrary matrix. The main ideas that underlie the generalized algorithm are as follows. 1. pilotism. The restrictions on the recursive algorithm are associated with the possibility of the appearance of zero diagonal miners of the second order at a certain stage of calculations, which leads to the stop of the algorithm. To remove this restriction, it is necessary to control the choice of this diagonal minor by multiplying by the matrix of the permutation. 2. Refusal of recursing. The recursive algorithm involves the sequential calculation of attached matrices for corner blocks about 2k (k = 1, 2,..). In a generalized algorithm, in connection with the need to search for a non-swarming minor throughout the matrix, it is necessary to abandon local-block recursing, since the emerging matrices of the permutations can connect the matrix far from each other. 3. Limiting the spread of permutations. If the attached matrix for an angular block of the order of 2K can be calculated for 51 internal permutations in this block, then the action of the rearrangements does not apply to the entire matrix, but is localized in this block. The report provides an algorithm for a generalized method and discusses the results of experiments in the Java environment. The work was carried out with partial support of the grants of the Ministry of Education of the Russian Federation (project N 02-2.0-98), RFF (project N 04-07-90268-B programs, programs "Universities of Russia" (Project N 04.01.051) and "Scientific Potential" (project N 23-03-24). L and T R and T R A 1. Malaschonok G. I. Effective Matrix Methods in Commutate Domains // Formal Power Series and Algebraic Combinatorics. Springer. - 2000. - P. 506–517. S. N. Ilyin (Kazan, sergey.ily@ksu.ru) Balancing of highly coherent graphs with weights in half groups, let S - half -group, G - oriented graph, each arc of whose weight is assigned - element of the semi -group S. naturally determines the weight of the way in The column is like a work of arc weights along this path. The graph is called K-Balanced if the weight of any path of the length is no more than k in it is unambiguously determined by the length of the path and its initial and final peaks. The graph is called balanced if it is K-Balanced at any K. Examples of balanced graphs are the graphs of the final groups, the columns of the iconic portraits of indecent complex matrices, satisfying the condition ‖AK‖ = ‖AF at all k, where ‖A‖ = max i ∑ j | aij | - Famous matrix norm. If for a certain natural K, each K-Balanced, strongly coherent N-Varic column with weights in the half-group S is a balanced, then the smallest of these Ks are designated through ωSc (n, s). Theorem 1. Each (N2-2N + 2) -Balanted strongly bonds 52