) Abstract sweeping in the theory of functions The concept of estimates for the first time arose in the theory of potential in A. Poincare. Its abstract interpretation is also possible (see [1], [2]). Let k ⊂ x - sets, and t, s: x → r∪ {± urb} - two functionality. S - sweeping T relative to x, if t (k) 6 s (k) for any k ∈ K. For the case when X is a vector grill, k is a convex cone, and T and S are linear positive functionality for x, It is supposed to discuss the application of such estimates to a number of topics of the theory of the functions of one and several complex variables, such as: • non-triviality of weight classes of holomorphic functions; • theorems (non-) uniqueness for such classes of functions; • description of the zero sets of functions from such classes; • presentation of measorphic functions in the form of private holomorly functions with certain minimal characteristics; • the existence of a holomorphic function-multiplier, “extinguishing” the growth of some in advance of a given function; • the completeness of exponential and such systems in various spaces of the functions of a complex or material variable; • The stability of objects from previous points with various variants of their variation. A distinctive feature of the application of the method of estimates to the listed areas is its non -constructive nature: where, with traditional approaches, a more or less clear construction of an object or their family with certain properties was required, it is possible to replace such a check of a certain a priori system of inequalities. The study was carried out with the support of the RFFF (project No. 03–01–00033) and the Foundation “Support for leading scientific schools” (project NSh - 1528.2003.1). 39 L and T R A T R A 1. AKILOV G.P., Kutateladze S. S. streamlined vector about wanders. - Novosibirsk: Science, 1978. - 367 p. 2. Khabibullin B. N. The dual representation of super linen functionals and its application in the theory of functions. I, II // Izvestia RAS. - 2001. - T. 65. - No. 4. - S. 205–224; T. 65. - No. 5. - S. 167–190. A. S. Holuevo (Moscow, holevo@genesis.mi.ras.ru) On the hypothesis of additivity in quantum theory of information a whole class of information in the quantum theory of information, simply formulated, but still not amenable, concerns the aditivity of a number of characteristics of the quantum channel Relations of the type of “classic throughput” or “maximum purity of the output state” in relation to the operation of the tensor work of the channels. This question is closely related to the purely mathematical problem of multiplier's multiplier, quite positive display describing the channel. All known results, including a numerical audit, are in accordance with this hypothesis. A positive solution to this problem would mean, in particular, that the use of adherent states does not increase classical throughput and would be important for quantum information theory. The report gives a formulation of a number of additivity/multiplicity problems, the relationship between them is investigated and the proof of partial results confirming the hypothesis is discussed. 40