) Weakly regular modules and their straight amounts are supposed to be associative and with a unit. Through j (r) and j (m) we will respectively designate the radical of Jackobson Ring R and Module M. The right R-module M will be called weakly regular [1] if each of its windows, which is not contained in the radicals of Jacobson Module M, contains the unnecessary direct terms of module m. The right R-module M is called 1-tier weak regular if each of its cyclic allowances, which is not contained in J (m), is released in M ​​in the form of direct term. From the results of the article [2] it follows that weakly regular modules, generally speaking, are not closed relative to the capture of direct amounts. Therefore, it makes sense to study the properties of rings, over which weakly regular modules are closed relative to addition or over which each module is a direct amount of weakly regular modules. In this regard, we note the following theorems. Theorem 1. If the right modules are closed over the Ring Ring Related to the capture of the direct amount, then above the ring R, each non -equal right module has a maximum allowance. Theorem 2. For the switching ring R, the following conditions are equivalent: 1) R - regular; 2) j (r) = 0, and poorly regular modules are closed relative to addition. Theorem 3. For the switching ring R, the following conditions are equivalent to: 1) above the ring R Each module is the direct amount of the final number of 1-tier weak regular modules; 2) Ring R isomorphic to a straight work of the final number of articous chain rings. Theorem 4. If above the ring R, each right module is the direct amount of the final number of 1-tier regular regular modules, then the Ring R Ring is isomorphically direct work of the regular ring and the final number of local rings. 43 L and T R A T R A 1. Sakhaev I.I., Hakmi H. I. On strongly regular rings and the fashion of Lyakh // Izv. universities. Mathematics. - 1993. - No. 2. - P. 60–63. 2. Abyzov A. N. The isolation of the weakly regular modules of the relatives of direct sums // Izv. universities. Mathematics. - 2003. - No. 9. - S. 3-5. Yu. A. Alpin (Kazan, yuri.alpin@ksu.ru) permanent and a joint spectral radius, let s - the final set of material matrices of order n, many SM consists of matrices - works of the length m matrices from S. Put RM = max a∈ Sm ‖ a ‖1/m. Here ‖ · ‖ ‖ is a ring matrix norm. The joint spectral radius of matrices from S is called the number R = Lim M → ger RM. Let AM be a matrix for which ‖ am ‖ = max auss. Theorem. If S contains only positive matrices, then lim m → ∞ (perm) 1/m = rn. L.A. Beklarian (Moscow, Beklar@cemi.rssi.ru) Group of Homeomorphisms of Direct and Circle. Metric invariants and combinatorial "obstacles" the report is devoted to the description of combinatorial "obstacles", the existence of a metric invariant (invariant measure, projectively 44