Supporting matrix groups, let K means a switching associative ring with a unit. As usual, GLN (K) is a group of all reversible (SLN (K) - special, UTN (K) - unchargled) matrices of degree N over K. For certainty, we believe that UTN (K) is a group of upper unchargled matrices. In [1], the theorem 1. Group G ULN (K), GLN (K), SLN (K), degree N ≥ 3 above the switching associative ring K with a unit is constructivized then and only when the ring K is constructivized. C. S. Goncharov during the report at the Algebra and Logic seminar asked if the analogue of the theorem 1 is fair for very constructive matrix groups. The next theorem answers this question. Theorem 2. Group G ULN (K), GLN (K), SLN (K), degree N ≥ 66 3 above the switching associative ring K with the unit is very constructivized and only when the ring K is very constructivized. L and Tr. T R A 1. Romankov V.A., Khismiev N. G. On constructive matrix loads // Algebra and Logic (in the press). I. I. Sakhaev (Kazan, ISHAK.SAHAJEV@ksu.ru), one-sided Nil-ideal does not always give rise to the accelerative rings of the ring. We will denote through the mn (r) the ring of all square matrices of the nth order above the ring r, j (r)-the radical of Jacobson Ring R. Amitsur in [1] and the cream in [2] formulated the following equivalent hypotheses. Hypothesis 1. The new-sided Nil-Ideal of the ring will be invested in Nil-ideal (the problem of Keta [3]). Hypothesis 2. If R is a Nil-ring, then mn (r) is Nil-ring for each n. Hypothesis 3. If R is a Nil-ring, then the ring of all polynomials R [x] is quasiregular. Smoktunovich [4] gave a partial negative response to the hypothesis 3: if R is the Nil-ring, then the ring of all polynomials R [x] is Nikolts. Theorem. There is algebra r above the simple field K characteristics 2 with such the right Nil-Ideal J that the ideal M2 (A) of the M2 (R) rings is not Nil-Ideal, where a is the ideal of algebra R, generated by the right-willy-ideal j. L and T R A T R A 1. Amitsur S. A. Nil Radicals. Historical Notes and Some New Results // Colloquia Math. SOC Janos Bolyai 6. Rings, Modules and Radicals. Keszthely (Hungary), 1971. - P. 47–65. 67