The joint spectral radius, let S - the final set of material matrices of order N, many SM consists of matrices - works of length m matrices from S. Put RM = max a ofher a pos ‖ a ‖1/m. Here ‖ · ‖ ‖ is a ring matrix norm. The joint spectral radius of matrices from S is called the number R = Lim M → ger RM. Let AM be a matrix for which ‖ am ‖ = max auss. Theorem. If S contains only positive matrices, then lim m → ∞ (perm) 1/m = rn. L.A. Beklarian (Moscow, Beklar@cemi.rssi.ru) Group of Homeomorphisms of Direct and Circle. Metric invariants and combinatorial “obstacles” is devoted to describing combinatorial “obstacles”, the existence of a metric invariant (an invariant measure, a projectively 44 invariant measure) for groups of direct and circle homeomorphisms. In particular, for a group of homoomorphisms of a circle, the existence of an invariant measure follows from a diya theorem: for a discrete amenable group Gomemorphisms of compact space, there is an invariant measure. In the case of a circle, the Tui theorem was strengthened by G. Margulis [1]. Theorem 1. For the Gomemomorphisms of the circumference of the circumference, an alternative is fair: either there is an invariant measure, or there is a free subgroup with two forming. The given alternative is a “weak” alternative, because both statements can be implemented at the same time. For an arbitrary group Gomomorphisms of the circle, a normal HG subgroup is canonically distinguishes. The following unreasonable alternative [2] is fair. The theorem 2. For the arbitrary Gomemorphisms of the circle of the circle, an alternative is fair: either there is an invariant measure, or the G/HG factor contains a free subgroup with two forming. L and T R A T R A 1. Margulis G. Free Subgroups of the Homeomorphism Group of the Circile // C. R. Acad. SCI. Paris, Serie I. - 2000. - V. 331. - P. 669–674. 2. Beklarian L. A. On the analogues of the Titsa alternative for groups Go Meomorphisms of the circle and straight // Mat. notes. - 2002. - T. 71, No. 3. - P. 334–347. A. M. Bikchentaev (Kazan, airat.bikchentaev@ksu.ru) A. S. Rusakov (Kazan) O. E. Tikhonov (Kazan, Oleg.tikhonov@ksu.ru) Characterization of the trace of the unequalities below through mn we denote a linear The space of all n × nnotracs above the field of complex numbers, through MHN - the subset of Ermi 45