) Classical isperimetric inequalities and isperimetric monotony of functionals for the first time the hypothesis of the existence of isperimetric monotony of the functionals was expressed by J. Hersh [1]. This approach allows, introducing an additional parameter, continuously tie various physical and geometric characteristics of the region, such as the main frequency of oscillations, worshiping, area, maximum conformal radius and other values. As a special case, the property of isperimetric monotony contains a number of classical inequalities, therefore, summarizes them. For the first time, this property was proven by M. Kekhler -Jobin [2], in particular, the Polya -Sega hypothesis was proved about isperimetric inequality between the main frequency of oscillation and the rigidity of the twisting and the well -known inequality of the Faber - the crane was generalized. In this work, new geometric functionals of the region and classical physical functionality are considered, in 101 the dependence on the parameter is expressed in an explicit form in a degree form. For them, the properties of isperimetric monotony in the parameter are established and new isperimetric inequalities are proved, including two parameters. The work was supported by the RFFF (project No. 02–01–00168) and the program “Universities of Russia”. LISTED 1. HERSCH J. ISOPERIMETRIC Monotonicity - SOME Properties and conjecturs (Connection Between ISOPERIMETRIC INEQUALITIS) // SIM Rev. - 1998. - V. 30. - No 4. - P. 551–577. 2. Kohler-Jobin M.-TH. Une propriété de monotonie isopérimétrique qui content plusieurs théorèmes classiques // C. R. Acad. SCI. Paris. Ser. A. - 1977. - V. 284, No 3. - P. 917–920. R. B. Salimov, P. L. Shabalin (Kazan, Shabalin@ksaba. Ru) The display of the polygons was obtained different from [1] by setting and the method of solving the Schwarz -Cristopheles formula in case of displaying the upper half -plane on the polygon with a counting number of vertices. Exactly, even if DZ is a single -link area, the border of which consists of two broken L1z and L 2 Z with a common point A0 (0, 0), composed of an infinitely number of rectilinear links. We denote through A1, A2, · · · · Verses LZ, numbered sequentially when moving in a positive direction along L1z from point A0, A -1, A -2, · · · · - vertices L2Z. When moving along L1z, starting from point A0, the DZ area remains on the left, and when moving along L2Z from point A0 on the right. The angles η10π, η 2 0π (0 ≤ η10π <2π, η20π - η10π <π/2), formed with a real axis, with the beginning at point A0 L1Z, L 2 Z, respectively, αkπ (0 <αk <1, <1kk <1, respectively, are considered known. ), α -kπ (1 <α -k <2) - internal angles in relation to the area at the vertices ak, a -k, k = 1, urb. It is required to determine the conformal display Z (ζ) of the upper half -plane in the plane of the complex alternating ζ = ctor+ Iη to ​​the DZ region, so that the contour L1z corresponds to the actual semi -shaft ă> 0, 102 passes to point A0