)  INCOMPUTABILITY FIFTY YEARS AFTER ALAN TURING  In the fifty years since Turing died (on the 7th June, 1954), his work on mathematics, logic and computer science has continued to exercise a unique influence. At the heart of his research was a lifelong concern with questions of computability, and in particular the need to find out more about the interface, both in the mathematics of the real world and in relation to the human mind, between computability and incomputability - the existence of unsolvable problems having been discovered, of course, by Turing and Alonzo Church in the 1930s. In this talk I will review the role of incomputability in Turings life and work, and examine its enduring impact on current research.  A. Facchini (Padova, Italy, facchini@math.unipd.it)  DIRECT SUM DECOMPOSITIONS OF MODULES, ALMOST TRACE IDEALS,  AND PULLBACKS OF MONOIDS  Suppose we want to study and describe all direct-sum decompositions of a fixed right module M over an associative ring S with identity. There is not a natural algebraic structure on the set of all direct-sum decompositions of M . The way to overcome this difficulty is to pass to consider direct-sum decompositions of Mn for all n ≥ 0. As the direct sum of a direct-sum decomposition of Mn and a direct-sum decomposition of Mm is a direct-sum  24    decomposition of Mn+m, we obtain that direct sum induces an operation on the set all direct-sum decompositions of Mn for some n ≥ 0. Moreover, we want to identify direct-sum decompositions that are equivalent in the sense of the Krull-Schmidt theorem, that is, up to the order of direct summands and up to isomorphism. Thus we are led to the monoid V (M) whose elements are direct summands of Mn up to isomorphism (for all n ≥ 0), with the operation induced by direct sum. More precisely, let V (M) be a set of representatives of the direct summands of Mn for some n ≥ 0 up to isomorphism, so that for every direct summand N of Mn there is a unique element 〈N〉 ∈ V (M) with 〈N〉 ∼= N , and define an addition on V (R) by 〈N〉+ 〈N ′〉 = 〈N ⊕N ′〉. Then V (M) becomes a commutative additive monoid that describes the directsum decompositions of M , and, more generally, those of Mn. By passing to the endomorphism ring R = EndS(M) of the S-module M , one sees that V (MS) ∼= V (RR), and V (RR) is the monoid of isomorphism classes of finitely generated projective right R-modules. In other words, we can always suppose M = S = R. In this case, V (−) turns out to be a functor from the category of associative rings to the category of commutative monoids. We shall see that:  The monoid V (R) is the pull-back of the monoid V (R/J(R)) and the Grothendieck group K0(R) over the Grothendieck group K0(R/J(R)). Here J(R) denotes the Jacobson radical of R. There is a relation between this type of pull-backs of monoids and divisor homomorphisms of monoids.  There is an order-reversing one-to-one correspondence between prime ideals of the commutative monoid V (R) and trace ideals of the ring R.  Most of the results about trace ideals can be generalized to a larger class of ideals called almost trace ideals.  There is a hierarchy that classifies the monoids V (R). The direct-sum decompositions are very regular when V (R) is a Krull  monoid, a type of commutative monoids that is the analogue for commutative monoids of commutative Krull domains.  Part of the work presented has been done jointly with Pere Ara (Barcelona), Franz Halter-Koch (Graz) and Roger Wiegand (Lincoln).  25