) The very constructive maces of algebras are constructive (calculated) Model M is called very constructive if its full diagram (built of the first-order formulas) is calculated, and N-constructive if its σn diagram is calculated. The concept of 0-designity of the model is equivalent to its usual constructiveness. In other words, M is very constructive if there is an algorithm that, according to the first order formula and the set of elements from the model, determines whether this formula is true on this set. If T is the theory of the first order, then we introduce the designation CM (t) = Inf {n ∈ ω | Any N-constructive model M | = T has a very constructive isomorphic copy}. This message fully describes CM (t) for any T, which is an elementary theory of a certain class of Boolery algebra, i.e., for any T that expands the axioms of the Boolery algebra. The study was partially supported by the Russian fund of fundamental research (project No. 02-01-00593). V.A. Artamonov (Moscow, Artamon@mech.math.msu.su) about the symmetry of quasicristals in 1984. AL0.86MN0.14 was built with icosaedal symmetry, not allowed by the known classification of symmetry groups of crystals. New metal alloys with non -courting groups of symmetry are called quasicristals. Let's set out a certain approach to their description. Let the Hermitic space E, called the super space with a fixed orthonomated basis E = (E1, EN). We denote through m all vectors whose coordinates in the basis E are whole gowsk numbers. Suppose that the material physical subspace V is highlighted in E, E = C ⊗R V and IV ∩ M = 0. Consider E as a 2N-dimensional Euclidean space, where x ⊥ IX for all X SER V. Let p - a “single” cube in E, consisting of all vectors that have in the Base of E Coordinates of the type A + IB, where 15 0 6 A, B 6 1. Put k = p ⊕V and suppose that the beginning of the coordinates does not lie on The border of K. We will call a quasicristal subset Q in V, which is the image of k ∩m with an orthogonal projection p: e → v. Theorem. Quasicrystal Q is a discrete subset in v. If S is a single ball in V, then there is a final number of such quasicristals Q ′ in V V V, that Q ∩ S = q ′ ∩ S. Let the final subset of X ⊂ Q, which has some surroundings of the set P -1 (X) ∩K ∩m contained in k∩m. Then, for any positive number T, there is such a vector a ∈ K ∩ m of length not less than T, that X + T ⊂ Q. Two types of inverse monoids of affinny transformations are introduced as material space that translate the final final subset from Q to the final subsets from Q. Groups of reversible elements of these monoids are two groups of symmetries Q. L and T R A T R A 1. You are Kuok Thang, Punikhin S.A., Sadov V.A. Geometry of KVA ZICRISTALOV // Success of mat. sciences. - 1993. - T. 48, No. 1. - P. 41–102. 2. Aragón G., Aragón J. L., Davila F., Gomez A., Rodriguez M. A. Geometric Algebra with Applications in Science and Engineering. Eds. E. Bayro-Corrochano and G. Sobczyk Birkhḧuser (Boston, Febrero 2001), P. 371-386. S. A. Badaev (Almaty, Kazakhstan, Badaev@kazsu.kz) The calculation in the topological spaces The concept of computing of the families of structural objects naturally appears in a wide variety of areas of mathematics. One of the calculation paradigms is its identity of continuity regarding the topologies that naturally arise in the description of structural objects. The report is supposed to consider the existence of computable numbering of a special species for topological spaces with efficient bases. sixteen