) Convex geometry: the investigation in the lattices of closed subsets and the existence of decompositions with convex geometry is called the closing space (x, φ) that satisfies the property of the anti -reservoir: x ∈ ng (a ∪ {y}) \ A entails y /∈ ∈ (A ∪ {X} ) for any closed a ⊆ x and any x 6 = y in x, as well as the property φ (∅) = ∅. Through CL (x, ∗), we denote the lattice of the subsets, which is closed to the X. The next result is classic (see for example [1] and [2]). Theorem 1. For the final lattice l, the following conditions are equivalent: 1) l isomorphic Cl (x, gment) for some convex geometry (x, gment); 2) l semi -displayed up and half -permissive down; 3) Each element in L present the only way in the form of an unusual unification of indecent elements, i.e., the only inconsistent decays have. In general, these conditions are not equivalent. The next question was posed by R.P. Diluors. Question. What are full grilles have the only irreducible decays? The following results were proved in [3]. Theorem 2. For the continuous upward upstation upwards of the lattice l, the following conditions are equivalent: 1) L has minimal decays; 2) L has the only irreducible decays; 3) l strongly coatomone and half -permitted down; 4) L strongly coatomone and locally distributed. Theorem 3. For continuous up and down the lattice l, the following conditions are equivalent: 1) L has minimal decompositions; 2) L has the only irreducible decays; 3) l strongly coatomna, half -dispersable upward and half -permissive down; 4) L strongly coatomone and locally distributed. In [2] it was proved that any ultimate semi -display upward grill is invested in the CL (X, gment lattice) for a certain final convex geometry (x, ∗). In this regard, the following question was posed in the same work. Is there such a class U of the final convex geometries of a particular type that any final semi -display upward grill is invested in the CL (x, uction) lattice for some (x, gment) from U? The following results exclude from the consideration the class of the final gratings of convex subservients of partially ordered sets and the class of final gratings of supports. Theorem 4 [4]. The class of the final submeck of the gratings of convex subservients of partially ordered sets is a pseudo -beam, which forms its own subclass in the class of finite semi -dystisting upwards. Theorem 5 [5, 6]. The lattice is invested in the final grille of the underplants and only when it is limited from below. 19 For the class of gratings relatively convex subservients of vector spaces, the answer is still unknown, but the next theorem 6 is fair [7]. Any ultimate -limited dinosaled grille into the final limited grate from the below relatively convex subservients of a certain final vector space. L and T R A T R A 1. Dilworth R. P. Lattitses with Unique Irreducible Decompositions // Ann. Math. - 1940. - No 4. - P. 771–776. 2. Adaricheva K. V., Gorbunov V. A., Tumanov V. I. Join-Semidistribu Tive Lattits and Convex Geometries // Adv. Math. - 2003. - No 1. - P. 1–49. 3. Semenova M.V. Decays in full grilles // Algebra and Lo Gik. - 2001. - No. 6. - S. 685–697. 4. Semenova M. V., Wehrung F. Sublattices of Lattices of Order-Convex Sets I. Main Representation Theorem // Accepted in J. Algebra. 5. Šivak B. Representation of Finite Lattitses by Orders on Finite Sets // Math. Slovaca. - 1978. - No 1–2. - P. 203–215. 6. Semenova M.V. The submissions of the grilles of the suborder // Algebra and Logic (accepted for printing). 7. Verung F., Semenova M.V. The submits of the gratings convex under the sets of vector spaces // Algebra and Logic (accepted for printing). S.N. Tronin (Kazan, Stronin@ksu.ru) Theory theory and the universal algebra in recent years have published three monographs dedicated to the theory of the Opead [1, 2, 3]. In the work of the author [4] a more general definition is given, thanks to which an abstract clones can be considered a special case of the concept of operates. This means that each variety of universal algebra is essentially (accurately up to rational equivalence) there is a variety of algebra over a certain opera. The situation can be described informally as follows: the theory of the diversity of the algebrus over the operates and the theory of diversity, which are traditionally awarded with the help of symbols of operations and identity, correlate approximately the same as the total 20