The dynamic model of the geodetic tube in the metric of Bondi-Pirani-Robinson N. R. Ageeva Tatar State Humanitarian and Pedagogical University, Ageeva-nat@mail.ru 1. One of the main sections of Riman geometry is the theory of geodetic lines, which also occupies an important place in relativistic theory of gravity. The task of finding geodetic lines is most often reduced to solving the system of non -linear differential equations, and therefore the solution to its analytical methods is faced with serious mathematical difficulties caused, first of all, the lack of methods for solving nonlinear differential equations. Maple symbolic mathematics package integrates analytical and numerical calculations with a graphic representation of solutions and therefore becomes an indispensable tool for studying geodetic lines. 2. An important class of gravitational fields are wave fields that describe the so -called gravitational waves. These fields correspond to a metric of four -dimensional Rimanov space with flat symmetry, allowing a Group G (5). The exact solution of Einstein's vacuum equations for this symmetry is known, which is described by the bond - pirani - Robinson: DS2 = 2DUDV - L2 Ch (2γ) (E2β (DX2) 2 + E-2β (DX3) 2) + + 2L2 SH (2γ) DX2DX3, (1) where U = 1√ 2 (X4 - X1), V = 1√ 2 (X4 + X1) 10 - delaying and leading times. The arbitrary functions β (u) and γ (u) describe the amplitudes of two possible states of polarization of the PGV: E+ and E × and are usually called wave factors of the PGV. The background factor of the L2 (u) = √ - g satisfies the only non -trivial vacuum equation of Einstein L ′ ′ + L [β′2 CH2 (2γ) + γ′2] = 0. (2) PGV with fixed polarization E + meets the metric DS2 = 2DUDV - l2 (e2β (dx2) 2 + e -2β (dx3) 2), (3) a PGV with fixed polarization E × - DS2 = 2DUDV - L2 ((DX2) 2 + (DX3) 2) + 2L2 SH ( 2γ) dx2dx3. (4) 3. The task of this work is the construction of a dynamic model of a geodetic tube in the metric (1), that is, finding the corresponding geodetic lines, and the subsequent animation of this tube with graphic products of the Maple package. To obtain the tube model, it is necessary to set the system of initial conditions corresponding to the initial positions, for example, six particles and their initial velocities. The movement of the obtained hexagon along the trajectory of the geodetic tube will describe its deformations, studying which can be explored by the dynamics of the interaction of gravitational fields with particles. For this case, the task is simplified by the fact that the metric allows the integrals of the type UV = du DV, Uα = Gαβ DXβ DS (α, β = 2, 3), as well as due to the ratio of the norm of the geodetic equation are integrated in quadrature. eleven