Horizontal elevator of linear connectedness in the tangent of the second order of N. I. Manin, Penza State Pedagogical University, let linearness of the MN is set on the basis of MN, X, Y - arbitrary vector fields on mn, t2 (mN) - tangent to second -order stratification over the data diversity. This linear connectedness allows for each vector field X, given on the basis of MN, to build its horizontal sequels XH0, XH1, XH2 in the stratification of T2 (MN), and for each co -chamber field ω, respectively, horizontal sequels ωH0, ω h 1, ω h. 2. These constructions are carried out. Local map (u, XI) on the basis of MN generates a card (π -1 (u), xi0, x i 1, x i 2) at stratification t2 (mn), where π is the canonical projection π: t2 (mn) → mn, and XI0, XI1, XI2 - coordinate functions on π -1 (u) ⊂ t2 (Mn) (I = 1, ..., N). For each vector field x = XI∂i, the coadecetic field ω = ωjdxj, given on the basis, the local representation of their horizontal sequels in T2 (MN) have the form, respectively: xh0 = xm (∂0m --γijmxj1∂1i γijmxj2∂2i + 12 (γiksγsjm --∂jγikm) x j 1x k 1∂ 2 i), xh1 = xi (∂1i - γtmixm1 ∂2t), xh2 = xi∂2i, ωh0 = ωidx i 0, ω h 1 = ωk (γ k ijx j 1DX I 0 + DX K 1), ωH2 = ωt ((1 2 (γkpiγ t jk + ∂jγ t pi) x j 1x p 1 + γ t jix j 2) dx i 0 + γ t jix j 1dx i 1 + dx T 2). Offer. Each linear connectedness ∇, given on the basis, gives rise to the only linear connectivity ∇H on t 2 (mn), which has the properties of ∇hxh0 y ha = (∇xy) ha, ∇h xhb y ha = 0, 96 where a = 0, 1 , 2; B = 1, 2. Linear connectivity ∇H is called a horizontal lifting of connectedness ∇ from the base in tangent stratification. The tensors of the twisting of Th and curvature RH for the resulting connectedness were built. L and T R A T R A 1. Yano K., Ishihara S. Tangent and Cotangent Bundles. Diffe Rential Geometry. - New York, 1973. Analytical and numerical analysis of the irregular refraction of the shock wave A. A. Matutin Saratov State University, www.sgu.ru Solving the problems of the shock wave refraction (UV) on the surface separating the gas and gas -liquid (bubble) environment when falling UV from the side of a denser environment with the formation of a vacuum wave refers to complex, relevant little -research tasks. In practice, there are often the tasks of interaction between low intensity, in particular: underwater and underground explosions, the movement of bodies under water with supersonic velocities, the movement of gas -liquid mixtures along pipelines. The peculiarity of such tasks is a complex picture of the current containing the areas of the decrease (rarefaction) and a sharp increase (jump) of pressure [1, 2]. In this work, an analysis of various regimes of the UV refraction was carried out: regular, irregular and regular with the formation of HT, closing the vacuum zone. To describe the phenomenon, an equilibrium model of a gas -liquid environment is used. 97