. The listing of resolved Ternary algebra and thorns of A. D. Uadilov Ulyanovsk State University, udilovaad@ulsu.ru, of course, are considered generated by algebras, as well as the growth of the innovations of the diversity of absolutely free algebras, free symmetric non -assymmetric algebras, free cyclic and free -free and free ones dicotyledonous non -associal algebra. For these purposes, ordinary producing functions and exponential producing functions (complexity functions) are used. In these classes, algebra is studied by subclasses such as permitted and quite permitted; Levonylpotent and quite 158 levonilpotent. The results obtained are equivalent to listing thorns that do not contain some prohibited supports. It is proved that the producing functions for free permitted (quite permitted) algebra steps Q in the class of absolutely free algebra, free symmetrical non -accerative algebra, free, non -acumic algebrch, free cyclic non -associal and free dual -type algebra are algebraic. This task is equivalent to the transfer of flat thornar trees that do not contain forbidden support: complete thorns of the q height in the case of free permitted algebra and complete thorns of heights Q after an arbitrary number of reduction in the case of free completely permitted algebras. Similar results were obtained for levonilpotent and quite left -handed algebra. This task is equivalent to listing flat thornar trees that do not contain prohibited supports of a special species. L and T R A T R A 1. DRENSKY V. Free Algebras and Pi-Algebras. - Berlin - Heidelberg - Singapore: Springer - Sverlag, 1999. 2. Petrogradsky V. M. Enumeration of Algebras Close to Absolutly Free Algebras and Binary Trees.// J. Algebra. - 2005. - V. 290. - No 2. - P. 337–371. 3. Bakhturin Yu. A. identity in algebrah Li. - M.: Nauka, 1985. 4. Maltsev A. I. Algebraic systems. - M.: Science, 1970. 5. Petrogradsky V. M. The growth of the polyline varieties of algebrus and rapidly growing functions // Matem. Sat. - 1997. - 159