. Objects of curvature of the connectedness of the space of centered planes in normalization O. O. Belov 25 Russian State University named after I. Kant, Kaliningrad, Olesya@epc.albertina.ru establishes a dynamics of changes in the object of curvature of group connectedness in stratification associated with the space of π centered planes, in the transition to the normalized space π1,2. In the n - dimensional projective space PN, assigned to the mobile repera {a, ai} (I = 1,., N), the space π all centered planes of the LM dimension m is considered. A specialization of the mobile rapper {a, aa, a; aa, aa (a = 1,., M; α = m + 1,., N) in which the vertices of AA are placed on a centered plane, and point A is the center of this planes. With the space of π centered planes, the main stratification is associated [1], in which the group connectivity γ is set. The space is normalized by π fields of planes PN --M (pn --m ∩lm = a) and PM -1 (A /∈ PM -1 ⊂ LM). The connectivity γ is induced by the normalization of space π ambiguous [2]. The mid -criminal spaces of the 1st kind π1, the 2nd kind π2 and the normalized space π1,2 were investigated. The dynamics of changes in the object of curvature R of the coherence γ during additional canonization is traced: 1) when placing the vertices of Aα in the normal of the 1st kind PN - M, when ωaα = g a αβω β + gaαbαβω β β β b, 2) when placing vertices AA in normal 2nd kind PM -1, when ωA = Gaαωα + Gabωb + GBAαω α B, 3) while placing these vertices in the corresponding norms. Theorem 1. Object of curvature R1 of the mid-tormalized space of the 1st kind π1 is a tensor only in conjunction with the object {Gaαβ, Gaαb, Gabαβ}. The R1 object contains three 26 shades, which are objects of curvature of subsidies in the strata: planar linear reperns, normal linear reperns and planar coffhan reperns. Theorem 2. Object of curvature R2 of the mid-seconds of the 2nd kind π2 is a tensor only in conjunction with the object {gaα, gab, gbaα}. The R2 object contains three shades, which are objects of curvature of the subsidies in the strata: planar linear repeurs, normal linear reperns and h (π2), where H is the afford factor of the stationary group of pairs {a, PM -1}. Theorem 3. The object of curvature R1.2 of the normalized space π1.2 is an tensor on its own. The R1.2 tensor contains 2 simplet shade, which are objects of curvature of subsidies in the strata of planar and normal linear reperns, and a simple shade of curvature of the curvature in the stratification of normal coffin's repeurs. L and T R A 1. Belova O. Fibering reductions of the Centered Planes Space by Normalization // Eniverse. Vopr. modern. matte. - Kaliningrad, 2005. - S. 10–13. 2. Belova O. O. reduction of the connectedness of the space of centered planes during normalization // Dif. Goom. Rumor. figures. - Kaliningrad, 2005. - Issue. 36. - S. 12–18. On the task of Koshi for a half -line wave equation with a controlled senior coefficient of O. A. Belyaeva 27