. Orifunctional compacting of the linear space with the strictly convex norm P. D. Andreev Pomeranian State University named after M.V. Lomonosov, the city of Arkhangelsk for the orifunctional compacting of the XH metric space (x, ρ) M. Riffel [1] determined the concept of the Buzeman point. In the case of the space of incompatible curvature along the bozeman, not every orifunction on X sets the point of Buzeman, and not every point of the Buzeman is set by the function of the βceman βc, determined by some geodesic beam C: r+ → x equality of βc (x) = lim t → ρ (x c (t) - t). In addition to orifunctional, it is important for the self -called geodetic compacting xg = x ∂ ∂ ∂gx spaces of incompatible curvature according to Buzeman. It occurs if the classes of asymptotic rays are considered as infinitely removed points. A conical topology is introduced on XG. (See [2]). In the case when space X is 15 CAT (0)-a spaceship, compacting XG coincides with the orifunctional compacting. In addition to CAT (0)-spaces to the main classes of the spaces of incompatible curvature according to Buzeman, normalized linear spaces should be attributed subject to strict convexity of the norm. Theorem. Let V N-N-dimensional linear space with a strictly convex norm. Then the following conditions I am equivalent: 1) Any orifunction is the point of Buzeman; 2) the family of the extreme sets of a single ball b ∗ tweeted space v n ∗ is closed in the topology of Punovo - Kuratovsky; 3) The compacting V N H and V N G is topologically equivalent. With n ≥ 3, there are examples when the conditions given in the theorem are not fulfilled. The work was supported by the Russian Federation (project 04–01–00315) and the program "Development of the scientific potential of higher education" (project 335). L and T R A T RIEFFEL M. Group C ∗ -ALGEBRAS AS Compact Quantum Metric Spaces // doc. Math. - 2002. - No 7. - P. 605–651. 2. Hotchkiss pH. The Boundary of Busemann Space // Proc. Amer. Math. SOC. - 1997. - V. 125. - No 7. - P. 1903–1912. Stratification and groups of autorphisms of orbimes of affinity 16