. The use of Maple software to create animation of fundamental physical processes by M. R. Bagautdinov Tatar State Humanitarian and Pedagogical University, Kazan-Mansour@rambler.ru many fundamental physical processes are described by differential equations, which in some cases are reduced to non-linear than the ode or equations of mathematical physics. Typically, nonlinear ode systems are only explored by high -quality methods. The package of symbolic mathematics Maple allows you to build numerical models of these processes and, importantly, animize them and create a dynamic model of processes, which allows you to better imagine the consequences of these processes. As an example, we consider two fundamental physical processes: a spontaneous disorder of symmetry and cooling of the plate. Based on the process of spontaneous violation of 19 symmetry, all theories of the great association are built. From a mathematical point of view, in the simplest case, this process can be described by a nonlinear ode of the 2nd order-an equation of oscillations in a symmetrical potential pit of the species: u = αx2 + βy2, where α <0 and β> 0. A change in potential energy depending on the time from Considering the non -linear friction force is described by the differential equation mẍ = 2αx + 4βx2 - kẋ | ẋ |, where m is body weight, k is the coefficient of friction. The differential equation is solved in numerically using the Maple symbolic mathematics package in the assumption: m = 3, k = 0.1, α = −6, β = 1 and x (0) = 0, ẋ (0) = 0. Using the obtained numerical decision is located Dependence X (t) (Fig. 1) and the dependence of potential energy on time U (t) (Fig. 2), animated graphs are built. The process of cooling the plate is described by the parabolic type. Let U (x, t) - the temperature of a one -dimensional rod at point X at the time of time t. At the initial point in time t = 0, the temperature of the rod was distributed according to the law U (x, 0) = φ (x). The ends of the rod are attached to the thermostat, and they are supported by constant, for example, zero temperature. Then the cooing equation will have the form of ∂ ∂t u (x, t) - a2 (∂ 2 ∂x2 u (x, t)) = 0. In the Maple package, we create the procedure for solving the equation and anamize u (x, t) (Fig. 3): 20