. Comparison of turbulence models in the Fluent program in relation to the wing profiles of R.A. Gayfutdinov NIMM of Kazan State University, rinrinrin@mail.ru recently, applied software systems based on numerically integrating the equations of mechanics are increasingly widely used in solving the problems of mechanics. In this paper, the possibility of using the Fluent [1] program is considered to solve aerohydrodynamics problems. Fluent is the leader of the software systems in the field of hydrogasodynamics and allows you to solve a wide class of problems, therefore, for the conscious application of this program in computing practice, it is necessary to clearly represent which methods and 32 models are used in this program. The vast majority of currents in nature and technology are turbulent. Unfortunately, a universal turbulence model has not yet been created for a wide range of tasks. The choice of a turbulence model depends on the nature of the turbulent flow, the required accuracy, available computing resources and affordable time costs. For an adequate choice of the turbulence model necessary to solve the problem of interest, it is necessary to clearly represent the properties and limitations of each turbulence model. Fluent gives a wide selection of turbulence models. Therefore, the main goal of work is to describe and compare turbulence models on the example of calculating wing profiles. To calculate wing profiles in Fluent, structured and triangular nets were built in the Gambit pre -Procedure. Calculations were made in the Fluent program. The advantages and disadvantages of each model are shown. Comparisons of turbulent models with real experiments were carried out in terms of computational resources, time costs for iteration process and accuracy. Conclusions are drawn on the results obtained. I express my gratitude with. n. With D.F. Abzalilov for the proposed topic of research. The work was supported by the RFFF, project 05–08–01153 and FCNTP, the RI --112/001/465 project. L and T R A T R A 1. http://fluent.com. Building symmetric unexceptable 33