. Optimization of systems with approximately known initial data of E.V. Trushin Nizhny Novgorod State University, lenatr@bk.ru the needs of various applications inevitably lead to the need to study the tasks of optimal management in situations where their initial data are known only approximately. However, in this case, the very concept of classical optimal management “loses its meaning”, because in the “indignant” task it may simply not exist, and subject to its existence, it is not entirely clear which “attitude” it has to the optimal management of the unperturbed tasks. The situation is fundamentally changed if, as a “desired” element of the theory, to consider minimizing sequences of permissible departments, the role of which are the so -called minimizing approximate solutions [1]. The report considers the problem I0 (u) → Inf, i1 (u) ∈ M + Q, u ∈ D, Q - the parameter, (PQ) 155 where D ≡ {U ∈ LMR (0, T): U (T) ∈ U p. C. on (0, t)}, u - compact in rm, i0 (u) ≡ φ0 (x [u] (t)), i1 (u) ≡ φ1 (x [u] (t), m ⊂ rk - target many, x [u] - solving the problem of the cat ẋ = a (t) x + b (t) u (t), x (0) = a, t ∈ [0, t], x ∈ Rn. The initial data of the tasks ( PQ), i.e., functional matrices A, B, function φ0: rn → R1, vector function φ1: rn → RK, convex closed set M, satisfy the conditions traditional for the theory of optimal control and are considered to be known. In this situation, the following are discussed in this situation The main questions: 1) the necessary and sufficient conditions for minimizing sequences; 2) the regulatory properties of minimizing sequences and the principle of the maximum of Pontryagin; 3) of of the end-strife approximation of the problem (PQ) and minimizing sequences; 4) the stability of the value of the problem (PQ) by the outrage of the parameter Q. Illustrative examples are considered. I thank my supervisor prof. M.I. Sumin for setting the task and attention to work. The work was supported by the Russian Federation, project 04–01–00460. L and T R A T R A 1. Warga J. Optimal management of differential and functional equations. - M.: Science, 1977. The Orifunctional border of the strictly convex plane of Minkovsky V.V. Tyukhtin Pomeranian State University named after M.V. Lomonosova, Arkhangelsk 156