The ratio of Tits on the border of the space of incompatible curvature according to Buzeman K. V. Churkin Pomeranian State University named after M.V. Lomonosov, G. Arkhangelsk (X, D) is a local compact space of incompatible curvature in the sense of Buzeman, the compacting of which XH and XG coincides. This means that the identical reflection X on itself continues to the homeomorphism of compacting. In the case of CAT (0)-spaceship, the ∂icles border has the so-called corner metric, which gives rise to the metrics of TITS TD as the corresponding internal metric (see [1]). We introduce a set of ratios on the border ∂icles, which serves as an analogue of the Titsa metric in the case we are considering. Determination 1. Let ₽, η ∈ ∂gx and a, b: r+ → x - rays with the beginning X0, which are in directions of points cil and η, respectively. We will say that the points me and η form an angle of less than π, and write ∠ (₽, η) <π, if Δx0 (ă, η) = lim t →+urb (a (t), b (t)) 2t <1. (1) Otherwise, we will say that the angle between hole and η is π, and write ∠ (₽, η) = π. The execution of inequality (1) does not depend on the choice of point X0 = A (0) = B (0). For arbitrary infinitely removed points ctor, η ∈ ∂gx we assume that 1. TD (cil, η) <π, if ∠ (ă, η) <π; 2. TD (₽, η) ≤ π, if for any of their surroundings u (ă) and v (η) 172 in the sense of conical topology, ∂gx is found ξ ′ ∈ U (Answers) and η ′ v (η) for which TD (cil ′, η ′) <π; 3. TD (cil, η) ≥ π, if it is incorrect that TD (cil, η) <π; 4. TD (cil, η)> π, if it is incorrect that TD (cil, η) ≤ π; 5. TD (cil, η) = π, if the inequalities of TD (cil, η) ≥ π and td (ă, η) ≤ π are simultaneously executed. Theorem 1. 1. If TD (cil, η)> π, then there is geodesiche A: r → X with the ends of A (+urb) = lection and A (− least) = η. 2. If for geodetic a ⊂ x the equality of TD (A (+urb), A (− least)) = π is performed, then A limits the normalized half -plate in X. The work is supported by the program "Development of the scientific potential of higher education", project 335. L And that 1. Bridson M., HaEFLIGER A. Metric Spaces of non-Positive Curva Ture // Comprehece Studies in Mathematics. -V. 319.-Berlin: Springer-Sverlag, 1999. A study of the deformable system during the relative rotation of individual links A.F. Shigabutdinov Kazan State University, Achigabo@ksu.ru, the study methodology and an example of the dynamic behavior of thin-walled structures of arbitrary geometry are given Taking into account and without taking into account the rotation of their individual links. Such tasks are often found in practice when designing complex technical products and mechanisms [1]. 173 Cinematics of movement implies the study of large movements of the elements of mechanisms, for which two coordinate systems are introduced: global, motionless, and local, strictly associated with the movable element so that the radius vector of the current point in a deformed state is folded from the radius of the beginning of the local coordinate system, radius Vector of the current point in a non -shaped state relative to the local coordinate system and the vector of movement of the current point. To obtain a system of differential equations, we will use the variational principle of Dalalamber - Lagrange. In this case, it is necessary to take into account the influence of additional power factors that arise as a result of the relative movement of the body, namely, the generalized power of inertia and the generalized moment of inertia forces. The generalized force of inertia is removed from the theorem about changing the amount of movement recorded for the system. The generalized moment of inertia forces is obtained from the theorem about changing the moment of the number of movement for the system. Further, depending on the model according to which the final -element sampling of the body under consideration is carried out, the system of differential equations is obtained, which is supposed to be solved in numerical integration. When solving the problems of dynamics, one of the advantages of MKE is the presence of unconditional methods of numerical integration of systems of differential movement equations [1]. In the work, implicit integration schemes of the type of NewMark method [4] and numerical integration schemes in the Mathematica 5.0 package. Another problem that arises here and which must be taken into account is the issue of determining critical speeds with relative movement. Such tasks arise, for example, when rotating the helicopter blade 174