Page 18 of How the properties of this group and geometric structure are related [1]. We are studying these issues for the orbogodes endowed with affinated connectedness [2]. Locally N-dimensional orbiosity N is a factor-space of the N-dimensional material space of RN in the final group of dipheeromorphisms γ. The isomorphism of the coordinate surroundings corresponds to the equivalent actions of the same group γ on RN. If points X and Y from N have isomorphic coordinate surroundings, then they say that they belong to one orbifold type. On many points of one orbifold type, the structure of smooth diversity is induced. Thus, the orbiosity allows the breakdown {∆K} K organo {0, ..., n} into smooth, generally, incoherent k-diversity ∆K, and the variety ∆n is coherently open everywhere in N. Such breakdown is called stratification Orbits, and the variety itself is ∆K, k ∈ {0,. . . , n} - strata. If the N-dimensional orbiosity N allows the stratum ∆K, K 6 = N, then N is called its own. We have proven that a group of autorphism a (n) N-dimensional orbits of affinity N allow the structure of a dimension group that does not exceed N2 + N. We emphasize that the completeness N is not assumed. This statement summarizes the famous Nomizu theorems, as well as Hano and Morimoto that a group of autorphisms of the N-Merit variety of affinated 17 connectedness is a group Lee. The aim of this work is to study the relationship between the dimensions of the strata of the orbits of the affinity coherence and the dimension of the group of its automorphisms. It is shown that the dimension of the A (N) group of N (n) of the ner orbits of the affinity of n, allowing the crama strata, does not exceed N2+N - (N -K) (K+1). Moreover, the equality of DIM A (N) = N2 + N is achieved when and only when the orbiosity N degenerate into an ordinary flat affection space. For their own orbivotes N, the inequality of DIM A (N) ≤ N2 is performed, and in the case of equality N it does not have a dimension 1 ,. . . -N-2. It was established that on the short circuit ∆CK components of the connectedness ∆CK k-dimensional strata ∆K is induced by the structure of smooth cord orbits, for which ∆ck is a lot of regular points, and the border ∂∆CK consists of a component of the coherence of the M-Mortal Strata where M <k. We say that the component of connectedness ∆ck strata ∆K does not adjoin the strategic strategic strategic if for any stratum ∆m orbits n, m <n, the closure ∆m does not contain ∆ck. It is proved that in the case of the component of the connectedness ∆ck strap ∆K, which does not adjoin the strata of a larger dimension, there is an estimate of Dim A (n) ≤ n2 + n - (n - k) (2k + 1). (1) Moreover, if ∆CK 6 = ∆CK, then DIM A (N) ≤ N2 + N - (N - K) (2K + 1) - K. (2) Examples are built showing the accuracy of assessments (1) and (2). eighteen