The mathematical model of military operations E. A. Talalaev Ryazan State University, dma@rspu.ryazan.ru Consider the mathematical model of combat clashes of the two sides, the number of which at the time of time t indicate through x (t) and y (t), and side X It has regular parts, and the side of the partisan formations. Differential equations that express the speed of changing the numerical composition of the opposing sides depending on the action of various factors, have the form DX (t)/dt = —a (t, λ) x (t) - b (t, λ) y (t), Dy (t)/dt = —c (t, λ) y (t) - d (t, λ) x (t) y (t), where the coefficients a (t, λ) and c (t, λ) determine the effect On the losses of the sides of X and Y of diseases and other factors not related to direct combat operations, b (t, λ) and d (t, λ) determine the losses of the parties from hostilities, λ is a three -dimensional parameter of external influence. Let the right part of the system of differential equations ω-periodic by t. The following task is set. Let only partisan compounds of the side of the side of the side of the side of the side are in some terrain. To determine the conditions under which partisan compounds Y will completely destroy the regular parts of the side X by the time t = 2π, without having to suffer losses. 150 For a mathematical model, this task is to find the conditions for the existence of a non-swarming 2π-periodic solution of the system of differential equations determined on the segment [0, ω], with the initial condition of the type α = (0, α2), α2 6 = 0. The fundamental matrix of the linear system system The approximations for the system of differential equations are represented in the form of a matrix. In the assumption that the non -linear part of the system of differential equations is represented in the form of the work of the matrix and the phase vector established that the existence of a solution to the task is equivalent to the resolving of the undifferential system B̄ (λ) + O2 (α |) + O2 (| λ | 2) = 0, where b̄ (λ) is the vector form relative to the component of the vector λ. The conditions for the existence of the undifferential system are established by the decomposition of the b̄ (λ) vector form in a series and the application of the method of a fixed point. The presentation of the algebra von Neumann, induced by a tightly defined operator M. R. Timirshin Kazan State University, timirshinm@yandex.ru algebra von Neumann in the Hilbert space K is the involutionary subhalhgebra of the algebra of all limited linear operators in K, closed in weak operator topology (see , for example, [3]). Various representations of algebr von 151