. The influence of point features in the flow on the aerodynamic characteristics of the streamlined plate of E.V. Varsgov NIMMM Kazan State University in the tasks of aerohydrodynamics cause certain interests of the flow of wing profiles in the presence of features of the type of source, vortex, vortex -sore, vortex. Such tasks were studied at one time by S. A. Chaplygin, V.V. Golubev. The task of the flow of a circle with a whirlwind was solved by A. I. Nekrasov [1, §§ 7, 8] and M. T. Nugin [2, § 16]. The reverse task of finding 29 of the Form of the Profile according to the distribution of speeds given on it in the presence of a vortex is studied by M. T. Nuzhin [2, § 16], and using the quasi of quasi - N. B. Ilyinsky and A. V. Potashev [ 3]. This work is devoted to solving the problem of the flow of an impenetrable plate with a well -established stream of ideal inconspicuous fluid in the presence of a vortex in the flow of a vortex. The method of comparing the planes was applied to solving this problem. As a result of the solution, the complex potential of the current was built, the current lines were found, the distribution of speed on the surface of the plate was obtained and the dynamic effect of the flow on the plate located in it was calculated, the results of numerical calculations are given. On their basis, an analysis was made on the influence of the position, intensity and circulation of the vortex on the aerodynamic characteristics of the plate. It was established that the approximation of the vortex to the plate and an increase in circulation leads to an increase in the lifting force and a decrease in the resistance force, and an increase in intensity leads to an increase in resistance and lifting force. Private cases were also considered: source, stock and whirlwind. I express my gratitude to the scientific leader Professor N. B. Ilyinsky for setting the task and useful tips. The work was supported by the RFFF, project 05–08–01153, and FCNTP, the RI-112/001/465 project. L and T R A T R A 1. Nekrasov A. I. Collected Works. -M.: Publishing House of the USSR Academy of Sciences, 1962.-706 p. 2. Tumashev G. G., Nuzhin M. T. reverse regional tasks and their applications. -Kazan: Publishing house Kazan. University, 1965.-333 p. 30 3. Ilyinsky N. B., Potashev A.V. Construction of a wing profile with a closing, modeled by a point vortex // Izv. RAS. Mechanics of liquid and gas. - 1992. - No. 1. - P. 3–9. Fundamental solutions for the tasks of bending isotropic and orthotropic round plates of P.G. Velikanov Kazan State University, my@www.ksu.ru when solving problems by the method of boundary elements, it is necessary to primarily determine the fundamental solution, which is a solution to a differential equation, on the right side of which Delta-function of Dirac is contained. There are several methods to determine the fundamental solution of the corresponding problem: the use of integral transformation of Fourier for differential equations with constant coefficients; The use of the transformation of the Kummer - Lyuville to bring a differential equation with variable coefficients to the equation with constant coefficients with the subsequent use of the integral transformation of Fourier. In this work, it is proposed to find a fundamental solution based on the found general solution of a homogeneous equation. If a general solution of a homogeneous differential equation is found, it turns out that the fundamental solution is a product of the sign of a sign on a general solution to a homogeneous differential equation with the coefficients found when solving the system of linear algebraic equations. This system is always resolved, because Vronskian is different from zero. Differential equations with P 31