. A numerical study of the behavior of structures from stainless steels in the conditions of quasistatic thermo-radiation influences by V. A. Gorokhov Nizhny Novgorod State University The problem of creating effective methods and means of studying a stainless stainless steel (VAT) of stainless steels, taking into account the main effects of these materials with thermomechanical and thermomechanical and Radiation influences is an act of 48 alna and a very complex task, which requires a whole complex of interconnected issues to solve a whole complex of interconnected issues. For stainless steels, one can distinguish several basic effects that appear during neutron irrigation: the dependence of the elastic characteristics of the material on the level of neutron irradiation, the dependence of the linear temperature expansion coefficient on neutron irradiation, radiation luxury, manifested in an increase in linear dimensions during neutron irradiation, the effect of neutron irradiation on the process plastic deformation and the process of thermal creep, as well as the appearance of such a factor as radiation creep. The report presents a description of the numerical methodology for calculating VAT products from stainless steels during thermomechanical influences in conditions of neutron irradiation. The behavior models of such materials, the implementation algorithms are considered, the proposed models and the methodology of a numerical solution to the problems of calculating structures based on MKE. To illustrate the performance of the proposed models, algorithms and a number of specific tasks created on their basis, created on their basis. An example of calculating the change in voltages in the rod is considered. The effect on the value of the emerging stresses of the following factors is investigated: 1) the dependence of the elasticity of the material and the temperature expansion coefficient on the levels of active temperatures and neutron irradiation; 2) the occurrence of plastic deformations in the material; 3) the occurrence in the material of deformations of thermo -radiation creep. The second task is devoted to the calculation of VAT of the cylindrical shell located in the conditions of spatial radiation -targeting fields. 49 On the uniqueness of a solution to one non -bore problem for the thermal conductivity equation, O. Danilkina Samara State Academy of Railways, danola@mail.ru The uniqueness of the solution of a mixed problem for a parabolic equation with a non -ock condition containing an integral operator is investigated. Consider in the area Qt = {(x, t): x ∈ (0, L), t ∈ (0, T)} Equation Ut - Uxx + C (X, T) U = F (X, T). (1) Put for him the task with the initial condition u (x, 0) = onic (x), (2) by the boundary condition u (0, t) = 0 (3) and non -cabbage condition u (l, t) = ∫ l 0 k (x, t) u (x, t) dx. (4) By solving the problem (1) - (4) we mean the function u (x, t) ∈ W 2.12 (Qt), which satisfies the conditions (2), (3), (4), and for any function η (x, t) ∈ W 2.12 (qt) The function u (x, t) satisfies the integral identity ∫ qt (ut - uxx + cu) η (x, t) dx dt = ∫ qt (x, t) η (x, t) dx dt. Theorem. Let 0 <c0 ≤ c (x, t) ≤ c1, | cx | ≤ c2, | cxx | ≤ ≤ c3, | ct | ≤ c4 p. C. In Qt, F (X, T) ∈ L2 (Qt), ∫ l 0 k2 (x, t) dx ≤ k0, 50