. Fundamental solutions for the tasks of bending isotropic and orthotropic round plates of P.G. Velikanov Kazan State University, my@www.ksu.ru when solving problems by the method of boundary elements, it is necessary to primarily determine the fundamental solution, which is a solution to a differential equation, on the right side of which Delta-function of Dirac is contained. There are several methods to determine the fundamental solution of the corresponding problem: the use of integral transformation of Fourier for differential equations with constant coefficients; The use of the transformation of the Kummer - Lyuville to bring a differential equation with variable coefficients to the equation with constant coefficients with the subsequent use of the integral transformation of Fourier. In this work, it is proposed to find a fundamental solution based on the found general solution of a homogeneous equation. If a general solution of a homogeneous differential equation is found, it turns out that the fundamental solution is a product of the sign of a sign on a general solution to a homogeneous differential equation with the coefficients found when solving the system of linear algebraic equations. This system is always resolved, because Vronskian is different from zero. Differential equations with P 31 belt coefficients, for which fundamental solutions are then located, are displayed from the consideration of the equilibrium equations of an element carved by cylindrical and radial sections. An analysis of the received fundamental solutions shows that the fundamental solution of the problem of bending the isotropic plate is a special case of a fundamental solution to the problem of bending the orthotropic plate. L and T R A T R A 1. Tymoshenko S.P., Voinovsky-Criere S. records and shells. - M., 1966. 2. Vainberg D.G., Vainberg D. G. The ratio between the floor sets // Calculation of the plates. - 1970. Comparison of turbulence models in the Fluent program in relation to the wing profiles of R. A. Gayfutdinov NIMM of Kazan State University, rinrinrin@mail.ru recently, in solving the problems of mechanics, are found application software systems based on numerical integration of mechanics equations . In this paper, the possibility of using the Fluent [1] program is considered to solve aerohydrodynamics problems. Fluent is the leader of the software systems in the field of hydrogasodynamics and allows you to solve a wide class of problems, therefore, for the conscious application of this program in computing practice, it is necessary to clearly represent which methods and 32