. The macroscopic model of filtration and mass -transmission in the homogeneous porous media D.E. Demidov NIMIM of Kazan State University Laboratory experiments on the stable replacement of fresh water with a high -concentrated brine showed that 51 increased concentration gradients leads to a decrease in the speed of smearing concentration fronts and to deteriorate the filtration properties of the environment. It is believed that the observed effects are caused by the stabilizing influence of gravity and can be taken into account by the dependence of the dispersion and filtration coefficients on the concentration gradient. In this work, macroscopic equations were obtained using the homogenization method, describing the processes of filtration transfer of impurities in the presence of large density gradients in a stable situation. The basic equations are a connected system of Stox equations and equations of convective-dipuse masses. Two types of processes were considered in laboratory experiments for finding longitudinal and transverse filtration and mass -transmission coefficients. In the first group of experiments, one -dimensional vertical movement of the horizontal front between fresh water and a highly concentrated brine is organized. In the second group of experiments, a horizontal stationary border layer is studied between mixing liquids of various densities. For modeling the powder space, the simplest one -dimensional model in the form of a ligament of the same vertically located capillaries of a slit -shaped or round shape, (II) lattice model of a porous environment and (III) model of the “chain of beads”, with areas of perfect mixing at points of contact of beads. For all considered models, it was possible to present dimensionless effective dispersion coefficients D and filtering K in the form D = ζ +D0 (PE) FD (R̃a), K = K0fk (G), 52 R̃a = Ra D0 (PE) PE2, G = RA PE . Here D0, K0 are effective dispersion and filtration coefficients for the case of the tracer, ζ is the winding coefficient. The dimensionless control parameters of the process - the numbers of Pekle and the Relay - are built according to the radius of pores. For amendments for the action of the gravity of the FD, FK multipliers, approximation formulas were obtained. It is shown that the corresponding dependencies are close to each other for various models of the powder space. The results obtained are well consistent with Watson et experiments. Al (2002). The work was supported by the Russian Federation, project 05–01–00516. The unity of solving a mixed problem for the equation of hyperbole - elliptical type in the cylindrical region of T. I. Dyomina PMA KBNC RAS, Nalchik, niipma@mail333.com in the area ωαβ = d × Jαβ, where D is a limited area of ​​RN points X with a piece of line -forating the border σ, jαβ: α <y <β, sαβ -boundary ωαβ, consider the equation of the mixed type Tu ≡ K (y) [aij (x) uxi] xj -uyy + c (y) k (y) u = 0 , (1) where k (y) ∈ C1 (J̄α0) ∩ c1 (J̄0β); aij (x), c (x) ∈ C (d̄), i, j = 1.2 ,. . . , n; yk (y)> 0 ∀ y 6 = 0; k ′ (y) ≥ 0, ∀ y ≥ 0; c (x) ≤ 0, aij (x) μiunk ≥ k0 | onic | 2 ∀ x ∈ D, ă rn; k0 = const> 0. 53