. The dynamic model of the geodetic tube in the metric of Schwarzshilda L. I. Rozakov Tatar State Humanitarian and Pedagogical University Gumlei@rambler.ru is one of the sections of Riman geometry, which can be considered in the theory of gravity as a dynamic theory of particle theory in gravitational fields determined by metric tenzor The four -dimensional Rimanov space with the Lorentsev signature (−1, −1, −1, +1). At the same time, the trajectories of massive trial particles correspond to the time -like geodesic, and the isotropic ones are of the Blessed. Exploring the geometry of geodetic lines, it is possible to restore local (and even global) geometry of space-time. The most complete study of the geometry of space-time is achieved by a study of the geometry of the geodetic tube, i.e., the conspiracy of close geodetic. The aim of the work is to study the geometry of geodetic 133 tubes in the Schwarzshild field and the construction of a dynamic model of this tube. Such a task is very difficult for analytical research, since its solution is associated with the study of the system of non -linear differential equations and finding a solution to this system. However, the package of symbolic mathematics Maple allows you to conduct a complete study of this task. As you know, the relativistic equations of the movement of the massive particle in the gravitational field described by the GIK metric in the four-dimensional space-time V4 coincide with the equations of geodetic lines in this space: d2xi ds2 + γijk dxj dxk ds = 0, i, k = 1, k = 1, k = 1, k = 1, 4, where γijk are the symbols of Christofeffle II, Dui/DS = UI-four-dimensional particle speed vector, s-invariant part of the particle, and there is a ratio of the standard Gikuuuk = 1. Consider the metricushwartsshild-this is the metric of the spherical gravitational field in the void: DS2 = - DR 2 1 - 2M/R - R 2 (Dθ2 + Sin (θ) 2Dφ2) + DT2 (1–2M/R), where M is the gravitational radius of the central body. The Maple package has created the procedures of the numerical solution of the geodetic equation with a different value of the moment of the pulse L: 134 –60 –40 –20 0 20 40 60 –60 –40 –20 20 40 60 Fig. 1-2 0 2 4 6 8 y –4 –2 2 4 6 8 10 12 x Fig. 2 from Fig. 1 shows that when moving to the central body, the geodetic tube is compressed, and when it is removed from it, it expands. In this case, a precession of the elliptical orbit of particles around the central body occurs. 135