. The end-element analysis of the tense-deformed and ultimate states of dry and water-saturated soils interacting with the elastic structures of L. R. Sekaev Nimym Kazan State University, lsekakaeva@ksu.ru when laying the metro line in the units of the metropolitan tunnels, voltages arise, close To the maximum permissible. This is confirmed by calculations and experiments. In order to protect the passage of the metro lines in dangerous section of soils, it is proposed to conduct an operation of chemical fixing of soils around the tunnels. The main goal of the work is to determine the optimal form of the field of chemical soil consolidation in the intersection zone with tunnels of the metro of the ground array in order to reduce the level of stressed deformed 142 conditions in the lining of the tunnel. The calculation of the flat cross section of the subway is carried out when it interacts with the ground arrays surrounding it. The section is in conditions of flat deformation. The lateral and lower boundaries of the region are set in straight lines, and the conditions of lack of displacement of points in the direction perpendicular to the rectilinear boundaries are set on them. Distances from the lining to the boundaries of the region are selected from the conditions of a small effect of the lead on the field of displacements and the stress-deformed state of the soil and are determined during the computational experiment. L and T R A 1. Berezhnaya D.V., Konopolov Yu. G., Sekaeva L. R. deforming the reinforced concrete blocks of drilling a metro tunnel interacting with dry and water -saturated soils, taking into account their chemical consolidation // Matte. Model. and regional tasks. Tr. All -Russian. scientific. Conf., Samara, June 1 - 3, 2005 - Samara, 2005. - Part 1. - P. 64–66. The generalized collocation method for one class of integrated equations of the third kind of S. A. Solovyov Naberezhnye Chelny considers the integral equation of the third kind with general assumptions relative to zeros of the coefficient: AX ≡ UX + KX (x ∈ X, Y ∈ Y), (1) where ux ≡ where ux ≡ tp1 (1- t) p2 q∏ j = 1 (t - tj) mj x (t), kx ≡ 1∫ 0 k (t, s) x (s) ds; t ∈ 143