-Besnikov of scalar works in unlimited areas A. A. Zhidkov Nizhny Novgorod State University, artem.zhidkov@telma.ru in the formulations of a wide class of mathematical physics tasks use differential operations ROT and DIV. First of all, it should be noted the tasks of mechanics of continuous media (in particular, hydrodynamics) and electromagnetic theory. In many cases, functional spaces with the inclusions of ROT - → U ∈ {LP (ω) 3, DIV - → U ∈ LP (ω) are considered, when the function is → U (x), x ∈ ω, has a certain smoothness and allows the inclusion of inclusion In the appropriate spaces of Sobo 67 leve. However, there are often tasks where the function - → U has various smoothness in relation to ROT and DIV operations, for example, in the tasks of electrodynamics it is necessary to consider functional classes for functions - → U and - → V, in which ROT - → U ∈ {LP (LP ( Ω)} 3 and div - → v ∈ LQ (ω), and at the same time the functions - → U and - → V are connected by material ratios of the type - → V (x) = µ (x) - → u (x), where µ (x) characterizes the properties of the environment and can be non -loading with a function (isotropic spaces). When studying the issues of the correctness of generalized formulations of tasks, various assessments play a solving role connecting the LP-Norm of the functions and functions that are obtained as a result of the application of ROT and DIV operations to them. In many works, in particular, in [1], [2], estimates of the type ‖ - → u ‖ {lp (ω)} 3 ≤ c (‖ rot - → u ‖ {lp (ω) 3 + ‖div - → U ‖LP (ω)). In the case of non -loading of the dependence between the vectors - → U and - → V to study the correctness of the corresponding tasks, the scales of the scalar work ( - → u, - → v) through the norms ‖ rot - → u ‖ {lp (ω) 3 and can be effectively used. ‖DIV - → V ‖LQ (ω) ([3] - [5]). For limited areas ⊂ R3, the corresponding LP assessments and the possibilities of their application for the study of issues of correctness were studied in work [4]-[5]. In this work, L2 estimates of scalar works are studied in unlimited areas, and as an example, stationary tasks are considered for the Maxwell equations system in an unlimited heterogeneous area. Using the L2-season, the theorem on the existence and uniformity of solutions to a stationary problem for the Maxwell equations system in functional classes determined by the setting of the problem has been proven. I thank my doctors of the associate professor A.V. Kalinin for setting the task and attention to work. 68 l and t e r a t r a 1. Duvo G., Lyons J.-L. Inequalities in mechanics and physics. - M.: Nauka, 1980. 2. The themes of R. Equations of Navier -Kostoks. Theory and numerical analysis. - M.: Mir, 1981. 3. Kalinin A.V. Some estimates of vector theory in Lei // Bulletin of the NSU. Ser. Matte. Modeling and optimal management. - 1997. - T. 20. - No. 1. - P. 32–38. 4. Kalinin A.V., Kalinkina A. A. LP assessments of vector fields // Izv. universities. Matte. - 2004. - No. 3. - S. 26–35. 5. Kalinin A.V., Kalinkina A.A. assessments of vector fields and a stationary system of Maxwell equations // West. NSU. Ser.: Matem. Modeling and optimal management. - 2002. - T. 20. - No. 1. - P. 95–107. On one method of the approximate solution of integrated equations of scattering theory based on periodic bursts K. G. Zverev Kazan State University Zverev@pai.ru modeling of physical processes associated with the spread of electromagnetic waves is based on the equations of Maxwell. A number of tasks, in particular, the tasks of scattering waves by periodic structures can be formulated in the form of regional tasks for the Helmholtz equation [1], [2]. These tasks are unambiguously solved in the class of quasiperiodic functions with partial radiation conditions at infinity [1]. ME 69