The approximation of the middle field when calculating hydraulic functions on the lattice model of the porous environment B. E. Gogolashvili Nimm Kazan State University, Bulat.gogolashvili@ksu.ru Modeling of the Finger formation process when impregnating dry porous media is associated with the need to clearly set the dependence of capillary pressure and relative phase permeability From water saturation in the entire range of changes in the latter. The experimental definition of these functions in the field of small moisture meets well -known difficulties. A possible alternative is the micromodeling of the process of redistribution of moisture on lattice models of the porous environment. In this work, the porous environment was modeled by the grill of intersecting capillaries of various sizes and shapes (circle and curved triangle). Within the framework of the micromodel, the capillary, film and corner components of moisture content and the main mechanisms for changing the state of a separate capillary (piston displacement, “Snap-offf”, cooperative filling) were taken into account. The analysis of the lattice model was carried out in the approach of the middle field. The dependences of capillary pressure and phase permeability for the drainage process in the entire range of humidity changes were built. The constructed micromodel was verified according to the well -known experimental data of R. dicarlo drainage of sorted laboratory rafting. Due to the choice of four parameters of the micromodel (two parameters of the distribution of pores in size, the coordination number of the grill and 44 are the proportion of capillaries of various shapes) managed to achieve a good coincidence of the constructed curves with these experimental data. The micromodel, verified in drainage tests, was also used to build hydraulic functions of the porous environment when impregnating it. The theoretical curves of impregnation made it possible to describe the experimentally observed effects: the presence of the limit and residual moisture, the insolvency of the primary impregnation curve, the hysteresis of the phase permeability curve. The work was supported by the Russian Federation, project 05–01–00516. The dual spaces of projective-metric coherence without twisting, induced by the normalization of the space-meter coherence space E. A. Golubev Chuvash State Pedagogical University, Cheboksary, Stolyarovav@chgpu.edu.ru to the present in the mathematical literature of the geometry of the equipment immersed in n. -The size of the projective-metric coherence of KN, N, remained not studied. Consider the space of projective-metric coherence KN, N [2] with the invariant field of local absoluts QN-1: Aijx IXJ + (1/C) (GI0X I + CX0) 2 = 0, AIJ = AJI, C = Const 6 = 0; I, j, k, l, s, t = 1, n. 45