The tasks of the diffraction of elastic waves on the periodic systems of defects in the layered environment of E. A. Osipov Kazan State University, pnb@ksu.ru are customary to call sections of the boundaries of the section of the media under which the boundary conditions differ from standard conjugation conditions. The tasks of the diffraction of elastic waves on defects in a layer environment can be formulated as the tasks of conjugating solutions of the system of equations of the dynamic theory of elasticity with explosive coefficients in conditions of conjugation. In the study of the tasks of the diffraction of elastic waves on periodic defects in the layered environment, the method of a redundant boundary task of Koshi was used [1]. Due to the frequency of the structure of solving auxiliary boundary tasks in each layer of the environment, the quasi -pierid functions (waves of the flock) of the type F (x, y) = eiχx +ger n = −mber fn (y) e i2πnx/l, where l is the period, were considered. Therefore, the system of differential equations for stresses and movements can be reduced to the system of equations regarding their Fourier coefficients. 118 considered a two -dimensional structure, consisting of a strip and two half -flows that have various elastic parameters. Along the lower boundary of the strip, there was a periodic system of defects (for example, cracks or hard inclusions). For the coefficients of the desired decays from the system of the Lama equations, a system of differential equations of the second order was obtained. On the boundaries of the media, the conditions of the interfaces are recorded corresponding to assumptions about the interaction of layers on defects and outside defects. The initial task is reduced to a paired functional equation. It is shown that this equation is equivalent to an endless system of linear algebraic equations, for the solution of which the truncation method is used. The reverse task is considered to restore the parameters of the defects system based on the results of measuring the characteristics of the reflected wave, in particular, the task of determining the depth of defects. An elementary elastic wave of a single amplitude was chosen as falling on the border of the section of the wave. L and T R A T R A 1. Pletshchinsky N. B. Reflection, refraction and diffraction of two -dimensional elastic waves. The method of the redundant task of the Koshi // Preprint PMF - 04–01. - Kazan: Kazan. matte. O-in, 2004.-34 p. The maximum theorems for random processes and their applications to insurance mathematics E. E. Permyakov 119 Nimmm State University, Epermiakova@mail.ru let V (t) - a centered homogeneous random process with independent increments that V (0) = 0 and E (v (1)) 2 = σ2 <mm. We determine the family of random processes xt (x) = (1/ √ t), x ∈ [0, 1], where parameter t> 0. Theorem 1. In the topology of uniform convergence in the space of the Skomail D [0, 1] XT → σW, N → °, by distribution, where W is the Vinerian process. Consider the sequence of measures in D [0, 1], associated with random processes XT: QN (ω) = 1 ln n n∑ k = 1 1 k δxsk (t) (ω), where Δx is the measure of dirac, concentrated at point X. Here (F): SK → ∞ with k → ∞, and there is β> 0 that SNN −β is an increasing sequence. Consider the version of "almost probably" theorem 1. Theorem 2. Let the condition (F) is fulfilled. Then for almost all ω ∈ ω qn (ω) → µσW, n → ∞, weak in D [0, 1], where µσW is the distribution of random process σW. Let π (t) - Poasson random process with intensity 1. 120