. The projection and growth scheme for the non-stationary movement of the viscous weak-minded gas1 K. A. Zhukov Moscow State University named after M.V. Lomonosov, Moscow built an implicit projection and growth scheme for the linear system of equations that describes the non-stationary movement of viscous, weak-gently in the case of two spatial variables. An assessment of accuracy was obtained depending on the parameter characterizing the compressibility of gas and the viscosity of the gas. 1 The initial-pore task we consider the linear system of equations that describes the non-stationary movement of the viscous weak-luminous barotropic gas: ∂p ∂t + k divu = 0, ∂u ∂t + ∇p = µ∆u + f. (1.1) The desired values ​​- pressure P and speed vector U = (U1, U2) - are the functions of Eler's variables (t, x) ∈ Q = [0, t] × ω (x = (x, y)). The equation includes function F (vector of external forces), which is a well -known function of Euler's variables. Through K 1, the financial support of the RAS program “Modern Problems of Theoretical Mathematics” project “Optimization of computational algorithms for solving the problems of mathematical physics” 141 projection and growth scheme for non-stationary movement. . . The positive constant characterizes the compressibility of gas [5,10] is indicated. We will consider the gas to be ill -impermeable if k ≫ 1. The value µ (µ <1) is a positive constant characterizing the viscosity of the gas. The technique of obtaining an assessment of the proximity of accurate and approximate decisions is such that the estimates are uneven in µ at µ> 0. Therefore, we assume that the value µ is separated from zero. Complete the system (1.1) with the initial and boundary conditions (p, u) | t = 0 = (p0, u0), x ∈ ω, u (t, x) = 0, (t, x) ∈ [0, t] × ∂ω. (1.2) below without restriction of community, we assume that the function P0 satisfies the condition for the standardization ∫ ω p0 dω = 0. The tasks similar to the task (1.1), (1.2) were considered in the work [4,6,8,11]. In these monographs, various variety schemes were built and the accuracy of the received net decisions were made. In the works [2.3], an economical end-and-based scheme for the task (1.1), (1.2) was built and investigated. However, the end-and-based approach makes great demands of smoothness to the exact solution. Semi-discrete schemes built by the Galerkin method were investigated in [1], where completely discrete (projection-characteristic) schemes are considered, which impose smaller requirements for the smoothness of the exact solution. In the future, we will assume the existence and unity of the generalized solution of the problem (1.1), (1.2), while we understand the equality (1.1) in the sense of integral identity ∫ ωp ∂t η dω + k ∫ ω η divu dω = 0, ∫ ω ω u ∂t ϑ dω - ∫ ω pdivϑ dω + µ ω ∇u∇ϑ dω = ∫ ω f ϑ dω ∀ op L2 (ω) and ∀ϑ ∈ O w 1 2 (ω), while u ∈ O W 1 2 (ω), p ∈ L2 (ω). 142 K.A. Zhukov 2 The projection and growth scheme, let ω is a limited single-link area in the space of R2, the border S of which is a piece of class C2 curve, and triangulation is set on ω, satisfying the usual conditions of quasi-dimensionality. The mesh nodes will be called the tops of the triangles of triangulation. Through ωH we will denote the totality of nodes belonging to the region ω. We break each triangle with the middle lines into four parts. The grid obtained as a result of such triangulation is denoted by ωH/2. We assume that for each grid all nodes are resettled: N-th the mesh node-(XN, YN). Each node (xn, yn) of the ωh/2 grids we put in line with the function eed (x, y) equal to 1 in this node, 0 in all others and linear in each “small” triangle. The node (xn, yn) of the mesh ωH will put in line a certain “large” triangle, the top of which it is, so that various “large” triangles correspond to different nodes. Now each such triangle we compare the function ψn (x, y) equal to 1, if (x, y) belongs to the “large” triangle, and 0 otherwise. A lot of linear combinations of pairs of functions onic (x, y) about the final space will find out. Denote it ° UH. The pairs of functions onic (x, y) form the basis in this space. Similarly, we define the PH space as many linear combinations of the functions ψn (x, y) that form the basis in this space. The expression (·, ·) denotes a scalar work, and ‖ · ‖ - the norm in l2 (ω). Below we will also use the norm ‖u‖ - 1 = sup eed С °, onic 6 = 0 | (u, ship) | ∇∇ç‖ and designations u ≡ un = u (x, y, tn), ǔ = un -1, ut̄ ≡ unt̄ = τ −1 (un - un - 1) in order to reduce the record. We use the method of finite elements for sampling by spatial variables and the method of final differences-143 projection-strife scheme for non-stationary movement. . . for sampling by time. The resulting discrete solution of the problem (1.1), (1.2) we denote (q, v): (qt̄, ψ) ω + k (divv, ψ) ω = 0 ∀∀ ∈ PH, (vt̄, ship) ω - (q, div iron. ) Ω + µ (∇v, ∇icle) ω = (f, ∗) ω ∀icle ∈ ® °, (2.1) where q and v on each time layer - from the spaces PH and ° UH, respectively. The initial conditions are set in the form (Q0, V0) = (p̃, ũ), (2.2) where P̃, (p̃, 1) = 0 and ũ are from the solution of the following problem