The task of maximizing aerodynamic quality: accurate assessments and approximation1 A. M. Elizarov, A. E. Ilyukhin, A.N. Ihsanov Nii Mathematics and mechanics named after N. G. Chebotareva Kazan State University, Kazan, this work is devoted to the study of the new variational reverse edge of the air -hydrodynamics problem - the tasks of maximizing the aerodynamic quality of the wing profile, streamlined by the stream of inconsistent fluid, taking into account the viscosity of the course in the approach of the border layer. An accurate solution has been built, the problem of non -confusion of the decisions received in the permissible class of single -leaf movements was discussed. A procedure is proposed that allows you to find physically implemented profiles (with a single -leafy area of ​​the current) with the value of aerodynamic quality, which is quite close to extreme. The introduction of following [3, 4], the term “variation reverse marginal tasks” is used to refer to this class of two -dimensional (flat) regional tasks with unknown boundaries, which are sophisticated both the solution of the differential equation in private derivatives, and the field of its determination itself, Moreover, the latter has a certain extreme property, and at the border ∂D one regional condition is set (as in direct tasks). The extreme property of the region D is expressed in the form of the requirement of maximizing (minimizing) the given functionality J (usually with additional restrictions). At the same time, the border itself is also a desired element of the solution. Therefore, such tasks are adjacent to a wide class of regional tasks with unknown boundaries. From the described production it follows that variations of the OKZ include, on the one hand, to the tasks of optimal design (see, for example, [14, 16]), on the other hand, to the tasks of optimizing systems with distributed 1 work, completed with financial support of the RFFI, projects No. 05-0801153, No. 06-01-81019-Bel A; AN RT, Project 05-5.4-341 119 The task of maximizing aerodynamic quality. . . parameters (see [9]). Studies conducted in [4, 5] showed that the use of methods of the theory of reverse edge tasks (OKZ) [1] allows you to reduce variations of the OKZ to the tasks of classical variational calculus. In this case, the presence or absence of additional restrictions can significantly change the picture of resolving tasks. Therefore, the problem of choosing optimized functionals and additional restrictions is relevant. It is difficult for general reasons to find a solution to this problem. At the same time, one of the natural sources of variation of the OKZ is classical aerohydnamics. Mathematical models of aerohydrodynamics allow you to write optimized functionality in explicitly, and physical limitations of these models are restrictions in optimization. As a result, the production of variations of OKZ aerohydrodynamics is obtained. In the case of simple mathematical models of currents, an analytical function acts as a sophisticated. As noted in [4.5], in the current time of variation of the OKZ for analytical functions, the correctness of tasks can be examined if you set many desired areas in the form of many images of the canonical area (in particular, the appearance of a single circle E - = {ζ: | ζ ζ ζ ζ ζ ζ ζ ζ ζ ζ ζ |> 1}) for a special class of conformal or quasiconic display described by the control p. By moving to the canonical area, you can represent the functionality of the task in the form of j = j (p), as well as write down on the “language” of control P all additional restrictions. 1 Physical model of the flow of wing profile, let the wing profile (i.e., the wing section - a flat area limited by a closed contour) is located in the plane Z = X + IY (Fig. 1, a) and is stuck on the established (stationary) uniform fluid stream. We denote through the GZ a current area containing an infinitely trimmed point, through the LZ-the contour of the profile, and through the Vrance-the value of the flow rate at infinity. Without restriction of community, we put vinger = 1. We assume that the LZ contour is hidden (it has 120 A. M. Elizarov, A. E. Ilyukhin, A. N. Ihsanova perimeter l = 2), closed and smooth, with the exception, with exception, be Maybe the only point B, which is called the back edge. We believe that at this point an internal angle is set to the area equal to επ, ε ∈ [1, 2]. With ε = 1, we get a smooth outline everywhere. Let us choose the beginning of the Cartesian coordinate system (x, y) so that it begins with the point b (z = 0), and the abscissa axis was parallel to the vector of the speed of the incoming flow. (c) Fig. 1: Physical model of the flow of wing profile: a) wing profile in the physical plane; b) a typical type of speed distribution V (S); c) The canonical region in the auxiliary plane as you know, the profile chord is called a segment connecting the back edge B with the point C most remote from it. For physically real chord profiles, it is always determined unambiguously. We denote the length of the chord through the b, and through α is the angle of attack (the angle between the profile chord and the direction of the speed of the run -up flow, see Fig. 1, a). 121 The task of maximizing aerodynamic quality.