Modeling capillary barriers to isolation of waste I. A. Rastorguev RNC “Kurchatov Institute”, Moscow 1 setting the problem when solving problems related to the burial of radioactive and non -active industrial and household waste, the waste body is overlapped with a slightly permeable screen. The screen reduces or stops altogether atmospheric precipitation into the waste body. As a result of this, there is no dissolution and removal of pollutants from the body of waste. Traditionally, natural or weakly permanent artificial materials are used as screens. The latter include polyethylene films that have a significant thickness (0.5 cm) and very low permeability. The use of polyethylene screens has the following restrictions: high cost; the need for high -quality welding of individual sheets of polyethylene; The impossibility of their use in the release of heat from the body of waste. The traditional natural material used as a screen is clay. Subject to the correct technology for laying the clay screen, reliable isolation of the waste from the infiltrate occurs. The technology of laying and compaction of clay screens is the main difficulty in creating them. It is almost impossible to compact the screen to such an extent that completely exclude filtration through it. Moreover, the more weakly the clay are, the more difficult it is to work with them. Another restriction of the use of clay screens is the formation of cracks due to external loads, drying, freezing and other causes. A possible alternative to traditional screens is capillary barriers. They are formed in unsaturated conditions, when a layer of fine -grained rocks lies on a layer of coarse -grained deposits. The barrier occurs due to different permeability of finely and coarse-grained rocks in unsaturated conditions (see Fig. 1). 207 Modeling capillary barriers to isolate waste in Fig. 2 shows graphs of the dependence of the filtering coefficients of fine -grained sands and gravel on absorption pressure. From the above graph it follows that with the same values ​​of the suction pressure close to the conditions of complete saturation (h = −5 cm), the filtering coefficient of sand and gravel differs by four orders of magnitude, and in gravel the filtration coefficient is less under these conditions. As a result, at the border of the section of the layers there is a delay and accumulation of water, that is, a capillary barrier occurs. The accumulation of water on it occurs until the water pressure above the barrier grows to such values ​​that a breakthrough of water from fine -grained deposits will occur in a coarse -grained layer. To prevent the flow, it is necessary that the border of the section, which is a barrier, be inclined. In this case, the moisture on the contact of the layers does not accumulate due to the flow along the contact area of ​​the media section. For the first time, the possibility of the existence of a barrier on the border of layers - low and high permeability - was described in the monograph [1]. Another qualitative description of the use of capillary barriers for waste insulation is contained in monographs [2]. Laboratory experiments demonstrating the formation of capillary barriers are given in [3]. - fine -grained soils - coarse -grained soils - infiltration nutrition - direction of motion of moisture 1 - surrounding soils 2 - fine -grained sand 3 - gravel 1 2 3 rice. 1: Capillary barriers in nature and in engineering protection systems Description of the use of capillary barriers in the field are given in the work [4]. During the work, 208 I. A. Rastorguev sand gravel 0.2 0.4 0.6 0.8 -h (m) 0 -4 -8 -12 k (m /s y) Fig. 2: The dependence of the filtration coefficient K on the absorption pressure on irrigated agricultural lands, watering water was previously painted. Excavations in the aeration zone (Fig. 1) showed the presence of many zones of increased flinterity of small size (<1 m) over rough sand lenses. Significant capillary barriers were found in the mountains of Yukka Mountin, Nevada. Detailed studies were conducted here for the burial of radioactive waste. As a result, it was shown that in low -occurring tufes with sharply changing filtration properties there are capillary barriers, the area of ​​which reaches hundreds of meters. The justification of capillary barriers to isolate the waste from infiltration nutrition (Fig. 2) was carried out in [5]. To justify the effectiveness of capillary barriers to Ross [7] received an analytical formula. The solution was obtained in the assumption of quasi -line filtering coefficient in the absenteeism in the absorption zone: k = kse γh (1.1) the formula for the effectiveness of the capillary barrier can be presented as follows: 209 modeling of capillary barriers for isolation of waste l <tg accord (ks - ks - q), (1.2) where L is the length of the capillary barrier impermeable for water; ∗ - the angle of inclination of the barrier; γ - Constant Quasilinear Hurray