The implementation of the analytical testing system among Maple M. R. Bagautdinov, Yu. G. Ignatiev Tatar State Humanitarian and Pedagogical University, Kazan, Kazan_mansour@ramansour@rambler.ru The Reforms of the Education System suggest, in particular, a change in knowledge control forms. At the same time, the problems of testing and self -testing of students' knowledge are foreseen. The existing methodology for testing the basis of van on two principles: either the choice of the correct answer from a number of proposed, or obtaining a numerical answer. Both of these principles suffer from one -sidedness in assessing the knowledge of students - in the first case, it is often difficult to come up with unlawful but plausible answers; In the second - the largest transformation receive more neatly than capable learns. The specifics of physical and mathematical objects is the analytical form of representation of the results of research. At the same time, the answers obtained as a result of the solution of the problem can have a different look and be equally correct. All this puts forward additional requirements for the dough programs in mathematics: the ability to introduce matte expressions and conduct analytical actions over them; the ability to compare, compare (check) analytical expressions, taking into account changes in their forms; WHO is the ability to carry out a self -test at each stage of solving the problem. It is also often required to give graphic solutions to the solution, which often creates great difficulties for the Station Dents. All these requirements can be satisfied using the Maple package. Two expressions can be compared, while they are not perceived as a text (letter) size 22 on and are not compared pipe. Two expressions will be considered equal if they are identical or equivalent. Such an approach to checking the solution (response) of the problem is necessary, since the answers of most tasks in higher mathematics represent an expression or equation. Using standard programming tools to develop tests about grams, it is very difficult to achieve this result. Computer mathematics systems make it possible to develop the fective environment of testing and self -testing according to the basic sections of mathematics, satisfying the listed requirements. At the same time, you can use the ability from the building of additional libraries (superstructures) from the generator of tasks and software tools for checking the results that are inaccessible to the tested ones. Based on these principles, analytical testing methods are developed. This work is an attempt to create a system of analytical testing and self -testing on the measure of “second -order curves” of the analytical geometry course in the Maple package. The developed test environment can conditionally divide into three parts: the task generator; the response of the response; means of analysis and demonstration of the solution of the problem. The task generator generates the equation of a second -order curve and retains in the computer's memory. Further, the student of the defense shall divides the type, parameters of the curve, writes down the equations of the Directive Tris and the coordinates of the tricks, makes the drawing. At the next stage, the testing program checks the results of the student with the correct results and evaluates the student’s response. The authors hope that the development of ideology and analytical testing methods will further create an effective system for monitoring mathematical knowledge of the 23 dents. L and T R A T R A 1. Ignatiev Yu.G. The use of analytical possibilities of the Maple package to create programs for analytical testing, self -testing and generating individual tasks in higher mathematics courses // Problems of information technology in mathematical education: Textbook. - Kazan: TGGPU, 2005. - S. 9–25. 2. Bagautdinov MR, Ignatiev Yu.G. Using the Maple package programming tools to create an interactive analytical testing environment in basic matt by Matical disciplines // Sat. work. Mezh. scientific. Conf. "Mathematics. Education. Culture ". - Tolyatti: TSU, 2005. - S. 265–268. The methodology for calculating seismic fluctuations in structures, taking into account contact interaction with the ground V. G. Bazhenov, N. S. Dyukin Nizhny Novgorod State University named after N.I. Lobachevsky, Boyarinovanadya@mail.ru The problem of the seismic resistance of buildings and structures of acquiring in recent years is significant relevance. The analytic description of seismic processes does not take into account the features of the contact interaction of structures with the base and various soil layers with each other, which does not allow the use of analytical methods in the calculations of responsible structures. Therefore, 24 are relevant