. The methodology for calculating seismic fluctuations in structures, taking into account contact interaction with the ground V. G. Bazhenov, N. S. Dyukin Nizhny Novgorod State University named after N.I. Lobachevsky, Boyarinovanadya@mail.ru The problem of the seismic resistance of buildings and structures of acquiring in recent years is significant relevance. The analytic description of seismic processes does not take into account the features of the contact interaction of structures with the base and various soil layers with each other, which does not allow the use of analytical methods in the calculations of responsible structures. Therefore, 24 creation and development of a numerical methodology are relevant, which, with mini mininating computational costs, will allow you to take into account all the many ways of dynamic interaction between the structure with the soil. The developed mathematical model and the methodology of numerical modeling of the behavior of buildings and structures under this national fluctuations take into account the effects of the contact one -sided interaction with the soil base and yes, the results are satisfactorily consistent with the indicative data with minimal computing costs. When building a mathematical model of the task, it was assumed that elastic waves when they go to the surface of the soil at right angles. When solving a two -dimensional problem, the sizes of the estimated area of ​​the soil corresponded to the 5 overall dimensions of the building, since, as for now the deposits of computational experiments, in this case, the contribution of the waves reflected from the structure becomes insignificant. La would have been developed a methodology for restoring the impulse load applied to the entire lower boundary of the multilayer soil massif, according to the seismogram known on the surface of the wound. On the lateral boundaries of the soil mass of Siva, an unperturbed decision was set. This numerical technique was used to calculate mutual displacements of the soil and buildings of the pump station and the back of the Torny compartment of the Busher NPP and used in assessing the strength of the underground water pipes under the influence of operational and seismic loads. When solving two -dimensional for the summer cottage, a package of “Dynamics 2” programs was used of course an elemental analysis of two -dimensional strength tasks. The work was carried out with the support of the RFFI, project 05-08-33618. 25 L and T R A T R A 1. Bazhenov V.G., Zfirov S.V., Kochetkov A.V. et al. Package of application programs "Dynamics-2" // Grase. problem. Surable to styles and plasticity. All -Union. Interuniversity. Sat., 1987. - C. 4–13. The non -stationary task of group persecution A. S. Bannikov Udmurt State University, Izhevsk in the space of RN (N> 2) The differential game γ ν +µ persons: ν pursuers P1 ,. . . , Pν and µ otching E1 ,. . . , Eµ. The laws of the movement of each of the pursuit of the PI and each of the escaping EJ have the form ẋi = a (t) xi + ui, ẏj = a (t) yj + vj, ui, vj ∈ V, where xi, yj, ui, vj ∈ Rn , i = 1 ,. . . , ν, j = 1 ,. . . , µ, a (t) - continuous square matrix of order n, v - convex compact. Definition. In the differential game γ from the initial state z0 = (x01,., X 0 ν, y 0 1,., Y 0 µ) Office is possible if there are measurable functions V1 (t) ,. . . , vµ (t), vj (t) ∈ V for all j, t> 0, such that with any measurable functions U1 (t) ,. . . , uν (t), ui (t) ∈ V for all I, t> 0 there is number S in which the inequalities XI (t) 6 = ys (t) for all I = 1 ,. . . , ν, t> 0. At the same time, we think. that at the time t> 0 the management of the escapers are formed on the basis of the z (t) = (t), (xi (t), yj (t)), and the management of the pursuers on the basis of any conceivable information. 26