One model of the economy of the developing country V.N. Denisov Nizhny Novgorod State University named after N.I. Lobachevsky, Bobaka@yandex.ru sets out the results of the analysis of the model of the economy of the developing country, which contains one of the possible mechanisms for its exit from the so -called "low standard of living". Within the framework of this model, the following designations are adopted: a - the amount of resource used in production (for example, a is the area of ​​agricultural lands); K - capital (buildings, structures, tools); L is the population (labor); The release is described by neoclassical production function y = AB1KB2LB3; AM - the maximum level of the resource used, brought up by a natural restriction (territory occupied by the country); A - technological progress in agriculture; A1 - the pace of natural reduction of the resource (exhaustion, deterioration of the environmental situation); S is the share of the general output, which goes to investment in the challenge by implementing in natural terms in the world market at the prices there; W reflects the ratio of price levels on the world market for the products produced by this country and the equipment that it needs to be purchased; γ - technological progress; M is the pace of depreciation. 74 It is assumed that the growth rate of the population is hanging from specific consumption, which serves as an indicator of people's living standards. If the initial level of the specific is low, then with its increase in the growth rate of numerically, the population will increase, and with an increase from the initial but high level of specific consumption of population growth, the population will decrease. Let CM - maximum specific consumption; N is the natural decline of the population due to biological nature. The above assumptions make it possible to record a mathematical model of the economy of a developing country in the form of a follow -up system of differential equations:    da/dt = akpa (1 —a/am) - a1a, dk/dt = wsγab1kb2lb3 −MK, DL/DT = DT = DT = DT = DT = DT = L (c (1 - c/cm) - n), (1) where c = (1 - s) γab1kb2lb3/l in the assumption that the “neoclassical” conjure b2+b3 = 1 is performed, non -trivial states of equilibrium S1 = are located (A1, K1, L1) and S2 = (A2, K2, L2) systems (1). The first is produced by a high level of stocking and a higher level of specific consumption. The second state of equilibrium is characterized by a lower level of the assembly company and, as a result, a lower level of specific consumption. The second state of equilibrium can be interpreted as a “poverty trap”, and the first as the most favorable level of economic development for the country. As a result of a numerical study, the parameters of the model’s parameters were determined, in which the first with standing equilibrium is stable, and the second was not. The main feature of this model is that it takes into account the open nature of the country's economy. Results 75 show that in the model of the type (1) the economy of the developing country has a fundamental opportunity to overcome the “poverty”. L and T R A T R A 1. Brander J.A., Taylor M.S. The Simple Economics of Easter Island: A Ricardo-Malthus Model of Renewable Resource Use // The American Economic Review. - 1998. - V. 88. - No 1. - P. 119–138. 2. Denisov V.N., Kuznetsov Yu.A. On one model of an agrarian economy with an endogenous change in the population // Bulletin of the University of Nizhny Novgorod named after N.I. Lobachev. Mathematical modeling and optimal managing. - N. Novgorod: NSU, 2005. - Issue. 2 (29). -C. 75-83. Characterization of traces on algebrah von Neumann inequality dinjs Chong Jung Kazan State University, dinhtrunghoa@yahoo.com at all below we will assume that p> 2. in [3] it is proved that if for the positive functionality φ on the ∗-adulture of matrices of the nth nth. the order for any non -negative matrix A, B and any α ∈ [0, 1] is the inequality φ ((αA + (1 - α) b) p) 6 αφ (AP) + (1 - α) φ (BP), (1) then φ = k tr, where k ∈ R+ and TR is a standard trace. This work is devoted to the transfer of this result to the tea of ​​the algebra von Neumann (AFN), that is, the algebra algebra of all limited 76 closed in the weak opera of the radio topology.