. The contact task for the spherical shell interacting with the strict plane of S. A. Kuznetsov, D. M. Salakhov Kazan State University in the work considers a thin shell of constant crowd, the material obeys the Law of the Hook, it is assumed that movements in the shell are quite small, while ensuring The geometric linearity is also also. The reservoir is filled with a bone, that is, it is subjected to internal hydro -pressure pressure, which is directed by normal to the surface. The problem is solved taking into account the following assumptions: - under the influence of hydrostatic pressure, the median surface of the shell is subjected to suspicimimetric deform of the matting; The tensile stresses are distributed evenly along the thickness of the shell; -taking into account the shape of the median surface of the shell, the hacker of the power exposure, including on the circuit, and the shell rocket, the membrane can be neglected by the influence on the intense-deformed state of bending and twisting moments and transverse forces [1]; - its own weight of the tank is not taken into account; 134 - The shell rests on an absolutely rigid plane, as a result of the effects of hydrostatic pressure, the shell is deformed and interacts with the base in a certain area. Due to the axial symmetry of the task, the contact area is a circle, the radius of the circle and the distribution of contact stresses at this site are subject to determination. The choice of the theory used significantly affects the end result: for example, the definition of normal stact reactions between the plate and the hard body without sharp edges from the position of the theory of the Kirchhof - the lazy leads to the appearance of the concentrated forces on the border of the contact zone [2.3 ]. Accounting for transverse shifts [4] allows the thread of concentrated forces, however, the contact stresses do not turn to zero at the border of the contact zone, but can be most important there. The solution of the same problem by the theory taking into account the transverse compression of the shell is given by the reel, closest to the exact decision [5]. In this work, a theory is used, taking into account the places of the transverse compression of thin -walled elements. The task of the linear theory of shells for the spherical tank under the influence of hydrostatic pressure is solved. The constructed graphs of the deformed membrane deformal membrane are rocketized as a physical meaning for summer cottages. The task of interaction between the thin shell filled with liquid is formulated, with a rigid plane in an updated production taking into account the transverse squeezing of a thin -walled element. To solve the main integral equation of the context of the stact problem, the method of information is used to the regional task for an auxiliary function associated with the desired contact pressure by a simple differential ratio. 135 l and t e r a t r a 1. Filin A.P. Elements of the theory of shells. Ed. 2nd, additional. And the outfit. - St. Petersburg: Stroyizdat, 1975. - 256 p. 2. Popov G.Ya., Tolkachev V.M. The problem of contact of rigid bodies with thin -style elements // Izv. USSR Academy of Sciences. MTT. - 1980. - No. 4. - C. 192–206. 3. Bloch M.V. To the choice of a model in the tasks of contact, the tone of bony bodies // Grase. Mechanics. - 1977. - T. 13. - BYP. 5. - C. 34–42. 4. Artyukhin Yu.P., Karasev S.N. The use of an updated theory of shells in solving contact problems. In the book: Theo -ri of the shells taking into account the transverse shift. -Kazan: Publishing house Kazan. University, 1977.-C. 132–153. 5. Karasev S.N., Artyukhin Yu.P. The effect of transverse shifts and compression on the distribution of contact stresses // Studies on the theory of plates and shells: Sat. articles. -Ka dawn: Publishing house Kazan. University, 1976.-BYP. 12. - C. 68–76. Model of the unnecessary course of the current in the snot Laval E. O. Kuznetsova Saratov State University named after N. G. Chernyshevsky, Jane-83@yandex.ru are of great interest are mixed ellipa tico-hyperbolic currents associated with the transition through the speed of sound. The purpose of this work is to study the problem of gluing the sim metric course of Meyer (M.) and the asymmetric course 136