The numerical modeling of the elastic deformation of the structures of nuclear technology structures V. A. Gorokhov, S. A. Kapustin, Yu. A. Churilov Nim Nizhny Novgorod State University named after N.I. Lobachevsky, vas-gr@rambler.ru characteristic feature that distinguishes the conditions for the operation of a number of responsible nodes of nuclear energy lines of the nelok, is the work for a long period in conditions of elevated temperatures and intensive radiation regulations. The operation of the structure in conditions of radiation exposure leads to significant changes in the mechanical properties and additional effects of the behavior of irradiated material, which has a significant impact on the processes of deforming the structure as a whole. This report discusses the creation of a numerical study of an elastic -backed delay in the formation of structures with quasistatic thermal and radiation loads. Description of the processes of irreversible deformation of constitutional materials (graphite, stainless steel) based on existing models of plasticity and thermal creep, in the determining the ratio of which the parameters characterize the effect of the neutron irradiation on the viscoplastic course of the material and taking into account the effects of radiation creep and radiation forming . The effect of thermo -radiation exposure to the characteristics of the elasticity of the material and the coefficient of neural temperature expansion is also taken into account. 65 To describe the anisotropy of the mechanical properties of the main materials, a structural and phenomenological model is proposed, which allows you to represent the initial transversal material in the form of a complex of two jointly paradise of bottleneck materials: the main material considered from the standpoint of the mechanics of the continuous environment and the material of the La fibers oriented. along the direction of the anisotropy of the source material. Methods and algorithms have been developed based on the method of the uniform elements that implement the proposed models of the Mate Rials in the tasks of the numerical study of the processes of the deform of the survey of structures during quasistatic thermal and radiation loads. The numerical modeling of the behavior of a number of contexts operated in conditions of intense thermal and radiation influences was carried out. The work was carried out with the support of the RFFI, project 06-08-00360. The method of the smallest squares of the solutions of multidimensional weak -random integral equations of R.K. Gubaidullin Kazan State University, Grenata@mail.ru is considered a weak -random integral equation AU ≡ U (x) + ∫ d h (x, y) u (y) rα DY = F ( x), 0 6 α <2, (1) where D is the circle of a single radius, x = (x1, x2), y = (y1, y2) - its points, r - Euclidean distance from the beginning of the coordinates to 66