The package of symbolic mathematics Maple as a means of developing children's creativity D. N. Fakhrutdinov Tatar State Humanitarian and Pedagogical University, Kazan, when solving equations and systems of equations from the parameter, students face difficulties. These difficulties arise due to the underdevelopment of the ability to represent a graphic model of this equation or systems of equations. It is the graphic picture that gives a visual idea of ​​the roots of the equation depending on the parameter. Therefore, a pack of symbolic mathematics of Maple can come to the rescue. IP using the PLOT operator, you can quickly build a graphic picture. Consider examples of solving problems with parameters by contacting visual and graphic interpretations. On the plane of Xoy, the function y = f (x; a) sets the family of curves depending on the parameter a. Let us explain what we mean. For example, y = 2x + b, b is a parameter. Equations can have a larger number of parameters, for example, Y = AX + B, A and B - parameters. Each family has a specific properties, studying which you can solve a wide class of problems. First of all, we are interested in with the help of what transformation of the plane (parallel transfer, turn, homothes, etc.), one can move from one curve of the family to another. Such a classification facilitates the decisive search for the necessary graphic image, since with such a approach, the solution scheme does not depend on the specific curve of the family. Due to the specifics of the school, we will be interested in linear and quadratic functions. 208 Example. How many solutions does the system of equations have | x | + | Y | = a, x2 + y2 = 1, depending on the value of the parameter A? The graphic interpretation of the specified system was obtained using the Maple package, presented in the figure. –1.5 –1 –0.5 0.5 1 1.5 y –1.5 –1 –0.5 1 1.5 x l and t e rn a 1. Matrosov A.M. Maple 6.-St. Petersburg, 2003. 2. Khlebostroev V.G., Obukhova V.G. Informatics and information-communication technologies. Elective courses in pre -profile preparation. - M., 2005. 209