. Analysis of sound information based on continuous owl-transformation by D. A. Abramov Kazan State University considers the task of spectral analysis of sound information presented by the ultimate length signal. The software complex capable of selling the capture of the sound signal with the subsequent decomposition of it into the spectrum. The analysis of spectral information allows you to identify some invariant frequency-temporal characteristics of the sign, which is necessary when solving such problems as identical to the voice (isolation of the main signal frequency), knowledge of speech, and improvement of a noisy signal. 4, as a tool carrying out spectral decomposition, the owl-transformation was selected (see, for example, [1]). Veillet-transforming a one-dimensional signal consists in its decomposition on the basis constructed from the function (wizard) through large-scale changes and transfers. Unlike the conversion of Fourier, classically applied to the analysis of signals, the owl-transforming provides a two-dimensional scan of the studied one-dimensional signal, while the frequency and coordinate are considered as independent variables. As a result, it becomes possible to analyze the properties of the signal simultaneously in the physical (time, to the orderly) and in frequency spaces. Direct owl-transformation is carried out according to the rule wψ (a, b) f = 1√ Cψ ∫ 1√ | a | ψ (x-b a) f (x) dx, where a and b are parameters that determine the scale and displacement of the function-welcome ψ (x), and Cψ is the normalizing multiplier. As a forming function, ψ (x) is selected by the derivatives of the derivatives of the Gaussian exhibit of GN (x) = (−1) n+1 dxn e - x 2/2, n ∈ N, the normalized coefficient is equal to cgn = 2π (n - n - n - n - n - n - n - n - n - n - n - n - n - n - n - n - n - n - n - n - n - n - one)!. Integration of the owl at an arbitrary interval is attained by formula b2∫ b1 gn (x - b a) dx = a [gn -1 (b1 - b a) - gn -1 (b2 - b a)], (1) which is the result : D dx gn (x) = −gn+1 (x). 5 Calculation of the Veillet spectrum of a discrete signal, representing a set of N counts {hk}, is associated with calculation at each point of spectrum N integrals from the GN function: WGN (A, B) H = 1√ CGN | A | N∑ k = 1 hk xk∫ xk -1 gn (x - b a) dx. Calculations can be optimized using the property (1). By introducing the integral value as a difference of the Weevetets per unit of a smaller order, we get WGN (A, B) H = A√ CGN | A | N∑ k = 1 hk [gn -1 (xk -1 - b a) - gn -1 (xk - b a)] dx. The last formula is an algorithm for calculating the spectrum with arbitrary displacement and scale. The difference between this work and others in this area is belonging to the use of a continuous owl-transformation (CTWT) instead of a discrete owl-transformation (DWT) traditionally used in this. Although DWT allows calculations for a small number of arithmetic operations, the capabilities of the signal localization are significant but limited. The use of continuous transformation based on Gaussian owls allows you to remove localization restrictions. The optimization of the CTWT algorithm, carried out in the work, made it possible to achieve the calculation speed comparable to the DWT speed. A software complex has been created that implement an algorithm for spectral analysis. 6 L and T R A T R A 1. Blatter K. Vaivet-analysis. Fundamentals of theory. - M.: Those Nosfer, 2004 .-- 280 p. 2. Vorobyov V.I., Gribunin V.G. Theory and practice of the transformation-St. Petersburg: Publishing House of Military University of Communications, 1999.-204 p. Modeling strong compression of the suspicimetric gas bubble in the liquid A. A. Aganin, T. F. Khalitova Institute of Mechanics and Mechanics of the execution of the RAS, Kazan, Aganin@kfti.knc.ru Detailed Study of the Evolution of the Spherical Form of the Bubble and their impact on gas dynamics In the cavity of the PUS in the final stage of compression, it is possible only with the ability of direct numerical modeling based on the equalization of the dynamics of liquid and gas. The work presents the basic provisions of the calculation methodology designed to study the strong compression of the suspicimetric gas bubble in the bones of the bone. To describe the movement of gas in the bubble and the surrounding liquid, the equations of gas dynamics and the dyan of Miki compressed fluid are used. The method of their numerical solution is based on the famous method of Godunov for the mobile coordinate system [1]. In its classic version, this method has the first approximation order. In this work, it is shown that this approach to solve two -dimensional problems of the dynamics of the bubble is almost unacceptable 7