Construction of unexceptably streamlined profiles with the selection of part of the external flow and blowing a reactive jet in the stern of R. A. Gaifutdinov NIMM named after N. G. Chebotarev Kazan State University, rinrinrin@mail.ru Aerodynamic quality of the wing profile is largely determined by its lifting force, which in turn hangs from the speed on the upper surface of its contrast. An increase in this speed often leads to the occurrence of flow from the stream and a sharp increase in resistance. It is possible to avoid this by controlling the external stream, for example, to discover part of the external flow into the air -recruiting engine. One way to implement the complex of the wing-engine is proposed by G. Yu. Stepanov [1]. He was set and decided to give the construction of a symmetrical non -flowing streamlined roof profile with selection and blowing of the jet. The selection of part of the underlying medium allows you to find unexceptably streamlined roof profiles with a high value of maximum speed, and by blowing the reactive jet provides the presence of traction, a directly proportional difference in expenses through the channels from boron and blowing. This work is devoted to the development of numerical methods of aerodynamic design of the proper wing profiles with active streaming devices using the theory of reverse marginal tasks (OKZ) for analytical functions. In it, the mixed OKZ Aerohydrodynamics according to the structure of the non -flowing streamlined profiles with the selection of part 44 of the external stream and a blowing jet stream was put and solved. Counted calculations. Private cases are considered when a blowing stream is not reactive. The work was carried out with the support of the RFFIF, project 05–08–01153. I express my gratitude to the scientific leader of Professi Soru N. B. Ilyinsky for the proposed topic of work. L and T R A T R A 1. Stepanov G. Yu. Construction of unremarkably streamlined bodies in combination with the movement // Problems of modern ME KHANIK. To the anniversary of L.I. Sedov. Edited by S. S. Griegi Ryan. -M.: Publishing House Mosk. University, 1998.-C. 190. The task of scattering for Schrödinger operator A. N. Galimov Bashkir State University, Ufa in L2 (R3) Consider the Schrödinger operator h = 3∑ k = 1 (pk + ak (x) ) 2 + V (x), where PK = i −1∂/∂xk, a (x) = (x), a2 (x), a3 (x)) and v (x) - respectively magnetic and electric potentials, and all potentials are material and satisfy the conditions (| φ (x) | + | a (x) |) ∈ L (R3), where φ (x) = A2 (x) + IDIV A (x) + V (x), a2 (x) = 3∑ k = 1 a2k (x); 45