. Modeling Nonferic collapse of the air bubble in the water of T. S. Gusev Institute of Mechanics and Mechanics of the execution of the RAS RAS, GUSEVA@KFTI.KNC.ru Numerous studies of a single -bubble failure of non -terms - glow of micro -dimensions in the standing wave - testify to the hypothesis that the light outbreak is that the light outbreak It is a consequence of a strong seal and heating the contents of the bubble in the final stage of its compression in the phase of increasing pressure of the surrounding fluid [1]. This phenomenon represents a significant practical integration and is used, in particular, to activate chemical reactions. In addition, it served as a starting point for well -known experiments on acoustic cavitation in the edited acetone [2]. In the above examples, one of the most important aspects is the preservation of the shape of the bubble close to the spherical. In the general case, the evolution of disturbances of the spherical form of the PULLLOW must be studied by direct numerical modeling. But in view of the complexity of this approach, the movement of liquid styles and gas, as a rule, is considered in the form of a superposition of the spherical movement and its small non -phase disturbance. In models known from the literature included in the equal to the amplitude of the spherical shape of the bubble, the spherical components of the speed gradients (as well as their 68 derivatives) and the pressure on the surface of the bubble are determined approximately [3]. In this work, the Minuted Graduate are determined without simplifications when calculating the spherical component of the movement of gas and liquid by integrating the equations of gas dynamics. When using the proposed approach at the stage of accelerated compression of the bubble, the faster compared to [3] is the development of the spherical shape of the bubble, when the density of the gas on the interposed boundary becomes quite close to the density of the liquid. The work was carried out as part of the OMMPU RAS program and with the support of the RFFI, project 05-01-00415. L and T R A T R A 1. PUTTERMAN S.J., Weninger K.P. SONOLUMINESCENCE: How Bub Bles Turn Sound Into Light // Ann. Rev. Fluid Mech. - 2000. - V. 32. - P. 445–476. 2. Taleyarkhan R.P., West C.D., Cho J.S., Lahey R.T. (JR), nigmatulin R.I., Block R.C. Evidence for Nuclear Emissions During Acoustic Cavitation // Science. - 2002. - V. 295. - P. 1868–1873. 3. Lin H., Storey B.D., Szeri A.J. Rayleigh-Taylor Instabide of Violently Col-Lapsing Bubbles // Phys. Fluids. - 2002. - V. 14. - No. 5. - P. 339–352. 69