. The minimum set of groups of isometric of metric spaces A. Yu. Dolgnosov Nizhny Novgorod State University named after N.I. Lobachevsky, Dolgonosova@rambler.ru Let G - a certain group of homeomorphisms of the Topologic space X. The subset A ⊂ X is called Ginovarian if G · a = A.. It is called in the form of unification of the orbits of the Group G. The non-empty closed G-invariant subset of the topological space X is called the minimum number of the Group Group G if the MM does not have the non-empty of its own closed G-invariant subsets. The study of the existence and structure of the mini -rash sets of groups of homeomorphisms of direct and districtly is devoted to a series of works by L.A. Beklarian [1]. In this work, we examine the minimum set of arbitrary group of isometry of the local compact meter. Applying the results of Van Danzig and Van der Wardin, from the messengers of [2], we proved the following statement. Theorem. Let (m, ρ) - a coherent local compact metric space and G - an arbitrary group of art meters (M, ρ). Then the closure of G · x orbit g · x any point x ∈M forms the minimum number of group G. 79 consequence. If G is an arbitrary group of Rimanov’s isometry (M, G), then the closure of G · X of each orbit g · x, x ∈M is the minimum number of Group G. The remark. The approval of this investigation can be obtained from [3]. L and T R A T R A 1. Beklaryan L.A. Groups of Homeomorphisms of the Line and the Circle. TOPOLOGICAL CHARACTERISTICS AND METRIC INVARIANTS // RUS SIAN MATH. Surveys. - 2004. - P. 599–660. 2. Kobayashi Sh., Nomizzu K. Fundamentals of differential geometry. - M.: Science, 1981. - T. 1. - 344 p. 3. Zhukova N.I., Malysheva E.L. About the minimum many concrete of Riemannes // Izv. universities. Mathematics. - 1986. - No. 9. - S. 38–45. An analogue of Levner’s equation for displaying stripes D.A. Dubovikov Volgograd State University, dubovikov@gmail.ru the Levner equation arose in the famous work of 1923 and in connection with an attempt to solve the problem of the coefficients. Ge metrically described the washing of the cut in terms of context display with Riemann's standardization. Subsequently, this equation was summarized in connection with the solution of various ex -three problems. In the transition to boundary standardization, analogues of Levner equations for half -flipped (with hydrodynamic standardization) and for the strip (when fixed 80