. The study of the problem of refraction on the free surface of the gas-gazydoskoskaya environment with the unexplored front of the refracted shock wave A. A. Matutin Saratov State University named after N. G. Chernyshevsky, Matutinaa@mail.ru The study of the characteristic features of the reference processes and the possibility of their practical use present a complex task that is relevant with practical and theoretical accurate vision. The theoretical importance of the problem is biased by the nonlinearity of the main equations and the complex time of the jerking nature of solutions. In the work, the boundaries of the existence of various rims of refraction with the unconstracted front of the refracted 162 shock wave (irregular (NR), regular (RR), regular with a shock wave (RRV), closing a vacuum) on a free surface separating two gas -liquid media, t. e. when the intensity of the refracted wave is compared with the intensity of the falling wave [1]. The influence of gas maintenance of the gas -liquid (bubble) environment on the main parameters and refraction modes was investigated. The studies explain the physical fur furs for the processes of refraction on the free surface, which is stripping a gaseous and gas -liquid environment, when the change of gas maintenance leads to significant changes in the physical properties of the gas -liquid environment, as a result of the refracted UV, it is not degenerated and has an intensity comparable to the intensity of the falling iv. This type of refraction is characterized by a significant transfer of energy from the liquid medium gas into a gaseous one. In the previously known work [2, 3], a class of tasks with a negligent small transfer of energy and the degenerate front of a refracted shock wave was considered. L and T R A T R A 1. Shindyapin G.P., Matutin A.A. To the theory of the non -linear refrition of the shock wave // ​​Mathematics. Mechanics: Sat. scientific. tr. -Saratov: Publishing House Sarat. University, 2006.-Issue. 8. 2. Shindyapin G.P. Non -linear interactions of shock waves in gases and gas -liquid media. Textbook. manual. -Sarah Tov: Publishing House Sarat. un-te. 1997. - 104 p. 3. Shindyapin G.P., Matutin A.A. Analytical research of nonlinear refraction of UV on the surface that separates the gas and gas -liquid environment // Sat. Mechanics and control processes. - Up the Russian Academy of Sciences. Yekaterinburg, 2004. - C. 190–197. 163