The regulatory dual method for solving linear equations of the first kind in the Hilbert space A.V. Klimov Nizhny Novgorod State University named after N. Ilobachevsky, artkl@rambler.ru issues of regulatory in the problems of solving linear equations of the first kind in the Hilbert spaces are devoted to numerous works (see, for example, a monograph [1] and a bib liography to it). However, among the whole variety of these paradise, their relatively small number is devoted to the issues of reinforcing the solution of the first kind equation based on the theory of duality [2]. The report is devoted to the presentation of the results of the study of the capabilities of the algorithm of dual regulation of the realization [2] to solve the linear equation of the first kind in the calbert spaces. Consider the equation of the first kind A0Z = H0, Z ∈ D ⊂ Z, (1) where Z and H are the Gilbert space, a0: z → H is a linear continuous operator, h0 ∈ H - a fixed element, d ⊂ z is a convex closed set. Suppose that the task (1) is solved, and we will look for its normal solution Z0. Then, following [2], we will reduce (1) to the vivalent task of optimization with an operator restriction of the equality of ‖z‖2 → min, a0z = h0. Let their approximations are instead of accurate initial data A0 and H0: APA: Z → H - linear limited opera 125 Thor, hδ ∈ H, ‖X --A0 "6 δ, ‖HPA --h0" 6 δ. Then we consider under α> 0 the regulatory indignant dual problem Rith, α (λ) ≡ v δ (λ) - α‖λ‖2 → max, λ ∈ H, where V δ (λ) ≡ min zatory lδ (z, λ), lδ (z, λ) ≡ ‖z‖2 + 〈λ, aδz - hafa〉, and introduce the designations zδ [λ] = argmin zăd lher (z, λ), λα ≡ argmax λλ rδ, α (λ). The report shows that when fulfilling the conditions of coordination Δ/α (δ) → 0, Δ → 0, α (Δ) → 0 the regulatory solution of zδ [λα] strongly in Z condenses the mint solution Z0 of the problem (1). This strong convergence of it takes place, regardless of whether or not the unperturbed task of maximizing v 0 (λ) → SUP, λ ∈ H, dual to the initial task (1). The problem of iterative regulatory of the above dual algorithm and the regulatory rule of its stop in the ultimate fixed, different from zero error of the initial data problem δ are considered. The results are illustrated by the example of the solution of the integral equation of Fred Golm the first kind that has numerous applications in various sections of natural science. The iteration schemes for solving the equation of Fredgolm of the first kind both in the space h of the dual problem, and in the wanderings of solutions Z of the original equation (1). 126 The author expresses gratitude to the scientific leader Professor M. I. Sumin for setting the task and assistance in work. The work was carried out with the support of the RFFI, project 04-01-00460. L and T R A T R A 1. Vasiliev F.P. Optimization methods - M.: Factorial Press, 2002. 2. Sumin M.I. The regulatory gradient dual method of solving the reverse problem of the final observation for the parabolic equation // J. Calculation. mat. And matte. physical. - 2004. - T. 44. - No. 11. - S. 2001–2019. Mathematical modeling of the movement of compressed fluid in the well, layer and mobile imperative chamber V. M. Konyukhov, D. E. Schalavin Kazan State University, dmitry-ksu@yandex.ru impregnation of the basic zone of the layer consistent Lencing with a high frequency of oscillations. Such an effect on the intake zone is accompanied by the movement of the fluid in about the garden column, the ring space, the layer and the implosion of the camera, as well as the movement of the chamber itself due to the lengthening of the cable-three. Thus, imperative effects consists of three interconnected processes: hydrodin of the mytic (fluid movement in all parts of the well), 127