. Mathematical modeling of the movement of compressed fluid in the well, layer and mobile imperative chamber V. M. Konyukhov, D. E. Schalavin Kazan State University, dmitry-ksu@yandex.ru impregnation of the basic zone of the layer consistent Lencing with a high frequency of oscillations. Such an effect on the intake zone is accompanied by the movement of the fluid in about the garden column, the ring space, the layer and the implosion of the camera, as well as the movement of the chamber itself due to the lengthening of the cable-three. Thus, the imperative influence consists of three interconnected processes: hydrodin of the mytic (fluid movement in all areas of the well), 127 filtration (elastic filtration in the layer) and the formation of the cable-three). A mathematical model of the implication process of CA was built. For calculating hydrodynamic processes in the well, the equations of hydraulics of compressed fluids use. MAS AND SENTS between the liquid in the well and the layer describes it with an integrated equation connecting the fluid rate in the well with slaughter pressure. The task of de formations of the cable-tros is solved within the framework of the model of the elastic stretching of the rod under the influence of a variable load, the pressure on the inner and outer flesh of the upper cover of the imperative chamber. To solve the problem, numerical methods and algorithms are used, which are implemented in the form of a gram complex. A series of computational experiments was carried out to assess the influence of the main parameters of the model on the characteristics of the cess. It is shown that the nature of the attenuation, the amplitude and the frequency of fluctuations in the pressure and fluid velocity in the wells of the well and in the layer depend on the size of the imperative chamber, the steppe is not compressor of the fluid, the absolute permeability of the formation; Moving the camera leads to the appearance of additional oscillations of all the functions. It was established that the optimal size of the chamber is in essence, in which the amplitude of the imperative exposure reaches the maximum magnitude. Estimates of the length of the cracks formed during implosion in the intake zone of the layer. 128