. A study of the behavior of an electromagnetic wave on the border of the Volnivodov I. G. Sayfutdinov Kazan State University, iLnursoft@mail.ru considers the task of emissing from a semi -infinite cylindrical waveguide to a lesser wave of a smaller radius, the symmetry axis of which is biased relative to the axis of the first volume of the New District. Cylindrical waves with perfectly conductive walls are filled with a homogeneous isotropic medium. The properties of the media in the waves are generally different. Let the water with a larger diameter run into the junction of its own wave TM0.1. It is necessary to find an electromagnetic field in each of the dudes of a wave -breed structure. It is supposed to be performed by a hypot in classical electrodynamics for electromagnetic in lei and the independence of the field from the angle α. Due to the fact that the field does not depend on the angle α, we will consider the process in the plane of the style (r, z). The components of the falling electromagnetic wave are from the messenger, and the parameters of the scattered field can be expressed through EZ = U, where this fusion satisfies the wave equity of 1 r ∂ ∂r (r · ∂u ∂R) + 1 r2u ∂α2 + (K2 + γ2 + γ2 + γ2 + ) u = 0 (1) 188 with boundary conditions on the walls of the waveguide E0.1Z | R = A = 0, Z <0, ∀α, E0.1Z | R ′ = B = 0, Z> 0, ∀α ′, And in the plane of the connection of the two waves, the tangent composition of the full electromagnetic field is continuous. The grace of the initial task of the initial task will be completed if the lobby pounds can be represented in each of the areas of the system in the form of decomposition on its own waves that go from the plane of the bone Z for infinity. When solving the problem, the method of stitching on the border of partial regions was used, a pair functional equation relative to the coeff of the focus of the decomposition of the desired fields according to their own waves of excitements was used. To regulate the functional equation, the integral identity method is used. The initial task is reduced to an infinite system of linear algebraic scholars, the numerical solution of which was found by the method of truncation. The computing experiment showed that the maximum of the energy of the field in the second waveguide is achieved when the plow of the symmetry of the waves coincides. L and T R A T R A 1. Kalashnikov S. G. Electricity. - M., 2003. 2. Kantorovich L.V., Akilov G.P. Functional analysis. - M.: Nauka, 1977. 189