The task of constructing a profile streamlined with a feature of E.V. Varsgov Nimm named after N.G. Chebotareva of Kazan State University, Evarsegova@yandex.ru In the tasks of aerohydrodynamics, some interest in the flow of wing profiles if there are features of the type of source and vortex. The task of constructing a wing profile in the presence of features of the type of vortex in the stream is solved by M.T. Nugin [1, §16]. The whirlwind was used in order to replace the dick or click. This approach allowed to find an analytical solution to the problem and derive the conditions for its resolution. But the issue of fulfilling the conditions for resolving the task, that is, the isolation of the desired contour of the profile and the coincidence of the given speed, the flooding flow with the value found in the solution process, remained open. With the use of the quasi -extension method, the task of constructing a profile with a click, replaced by a single motionlessly fixed vortex, was solved in the work [2]. This work is devoted to solving the reverse edge problem of aerohydrodynamics in the presence of a vortex of nickname, in private cases of which are a source and a whirlwind. The distribution of speeds obtained from the distribution of speed according to the plate by replacing an infinite value with which is set. A condition for the impermeability of the circuit is imposed. It requires to find the shape of the wing profile and calculate its aerodi namic characteristics. In the event that the resulting end of the profile is open, the KVA KVA method is used [3]. In the work, an analytical solution was obtained, compiled about 35 grams, numerical calculations were made. Wing profiles have been built, their aerodynamic characteristics are calculated. Private cases of the source, runoff, whirlwind are considered. There are conclusions about the influence of the features in the stream on the shape and aerial characteristics of wing profiles. I express my gratitude to the scientific leader of Professi Soru NB Ilyinsky for useful tips. The work was carried out with the support of the RFFIF, project 05–08–01153. L and T R A T U RA. 1. Tumashev G.G. Reverse edge tasks and their applications. -Kazan: Publishing house Kazan. University, 1965.-333 p. 2. Ilyinsky N.B., Potashev A.V. Building a wing profile with a closing simulated point vortex // Izv. RAS. Mechanics of liquid and gas. - 1992. - No. 1. - P. 3–9. 3. Elizarov A.M., Ilyinsky N.B., Potashev A.V. Reverse edge tasks of aerohydrodynamics. - M.: Fizatlit, 1994 .-- 440 p. Complex constant distribution of elastic waveguide for the case of the border with friction of K. N. Vdovin Nimm named after N. G. Chebotarev Kazan State University has studied the task of linear elastic harmonic ceremonies in the strip thick a, density ρ and with the coefficient of Tami Lame λ and µ. Such fluctuations are described by the equation of motion and the law of Hook. There are cases when the upper 36