-Samilogo space R.A. Golovastov, A. A. Gryzlov Udmurt State University, Izhevsk, rpa4@bk.ru, as you know, many mathematical studies examine the Hausdorfs of space, where in addition to the so -called separation axiom T1, an axiom is performed from deliberation T2. We examined several properties of the T1-proceedings that are compared with similar properties in T2 space. The main tool for studying the structure of the space is all kinds of assessments of cardinal invariants, in particular, tightness, nature and pseudo character. These invariants, attributed to an arbitrary accurate KE, can be intuitively considered as the “depth” of the occurrence of this point in space. The main result is the proof of the theorem about the cramped in a self-intended T1-Project of Wandering. Lemma. Let X-T1-bicompact with a pseudo-character ψ (x), a ⊆ x-subset, compact up to the cardinal ψ (x). Then a is a bikopakk. Theorem. The tightness in a self-combined T1 space does not exceed the pseudo-chamber. In the case of a T1-compact, but not self-consolidated simple, the wound of crowded and the pseudo-character is incomparable. L and T R A T R A 1. Arkhangelsky A.V. Display and space // Success Mat. sciences. - 1966. - T. 21. 61 2. Gryzlov A.A. Two theorems about the power of topological spaces // Dokl. USSR Academy of Sciences. -1980.-T. 251.-No. 4. Nosymmetric metric connectedness and their classification of I. A. Gordeev Vladimir Pedagogical University, gordeeva@vgpu.vladimir.ru Consider the nh-dimensional (pseudo) rimanovo diversity m with metric tensor g and The connectedness of the levi-chivites ∇. The linear connectedness ∇ with non -equal to steam is called asymmetric metric coherence, if ∇g = 0. We denote through the s telawing of coherence ∇. Then the tensor s, such that s (z, x, y) = g (z, s (x, y)) for any x, y, z ∈ TM, at each point x ∈ M satisfies the condition sx ∈ T ∗ XM ⊗ λ2 (txm). Consider two operators λ3: t ∗ xm ⊗ λ2 (t ∗ xm) → λ3 (t ∗ xm) and (tr12W) (x) = ∑ k = 1, ..., n w (ek, ek, x) for arbitrary Wx ∈ T ∗ XM ⊗ λ2 (t ∗ XM) and orthonomated basis {E1 ,. . . , en} TXM spaces. Then the decomposition t ∗ xm ⊗ λ2 (txm) = gx ∧rt ∗ xm ⊕λ3 (t ∗ xm) ⊕ ker λ3 ∩ ker (TR12) is true, which is irreversible relative to the action of the ORTO Gonal Group O (GX). In accordance with this decomposition 62