). The numerical modeling of the distribution of microsyism in real environments T. Biraltsev Kazan State University, ltbd@ksu.ru Currently, the microseism research method all begins to be used in oil geophysics. This method is based on the phenomenon of an abnormal low -frequency spectrum of natural microsyism, which is available in the oil tactical emissions in the microseism spectrum in the range of 1 - 10 Hz, substantially (2 to 5 times) exceeding the background level, and the absence of them outside the contours of the oil. By registering microsyism spectra, we can conclude about the prospects for the oil and gas outness of the area [1]. This EF Fekt can be explained by the emergence of local waves between the day surface and the essential geologically in heterogeneities. In the work [2], the fundamental possibility of a wave -water fashion for a two -layer ethnic medium, consisting of a crystalline foundation and sedimentary cover, where the foundation is modeled by tight consolidation of the lower boundary of the infinite strip, was shown. However, the modeling of the media with a real foundation and geologically in heterogeneities is more convenient to carry out numerically. In this paper, a numerical model for modeling microsyism in real mind 33 DAH is built in the framework of a flat production. The purpose of the modeling is to build a sign of the sign, the comparison of which with the observed experimentally posts to make the forecast for oil and this. On the basis of the method to the unremarking elements [3], a software complex has been developed and tested for modeling the processes of forced oscillations of the elastic and viscous-angular anisotropic media, which poses in qualitatively to evaluate and explain the observed effects. Testing the proposed methodology. Set Leno that the effect studied depends significantly on the halob in a real environment; The numerical calculation of the signal spectrum in an absolutely home environment demonstrates the presence of mod in the entire frequency range. The satisfactory coordination of the results of modeling with experimental data was noted. L and T R A T R A 1. Biraltsev E.V. and other forecasting oiliness by low -frequency seismic sounding on the MULYUMOT oil field within the dubrinovs of the General Raise // Report under an agreement with ZAO Neftertekonsorto, CJSC NPK Geoton, 2004. 2. Tumakov D.N. Own vibrations of the elastic strip // Preprint PMF-05-02. - Kazan: Kazan. matte. Op-in, 2005.-26 p. 3. Golovanov A.I., Berezhnaya D.V. The method of the final element in the mechanics of deformable solid bodies. - Kazan: Publishing House in Das, 2001. 34