The sporadic simple final groups M.E. Eliseev, L. N. Erofeev Nizhny Novgorod State Technical University is known that naturally arising problems in one field of science often raise questions in another area, and the latter either do not appear in it, or are represented by empty or uninteresting , do not be a connection between adjacent areas. Here is an example of such a question in the theory of end groups. Is it true that in an uneatable class of conjugation of the final simple group there are switching elements? This issue is associated with the theory of the so -called left -moving groups (LDH) introduced into [1]. LDH is understood as a lot with binary operation ° that satisfies the axioms: 1. a ° (b ° C) = (A ° B) ° (A ° C); 2. A ° x = B unambiguously determines X; 3. X ° A = B unambiguously determines X. 89 In fact, the decision, which is in question in Aksi Oma 3, is x = a [1]. A group of left broadcasts Z (G) is defined as a group of automorphism G (°), generated by left broadcasts LA = (X 7 → A ° X). Left -resistive quasi -groups (LDK), in which axiom 3 is replaced by a stronger requirement of unambiguous resolution of the equation X ° A = B, of course, are LDH. It is easy to see that this requirement ensures the transitivity of Z (G) on G. The problem of transitivity in the case of LDH arises. When studying it, the question arose of the final simple groups, the form was dumched above. The solution to the issue is related to the verification from the messenger ordinary groups, which is currently completed. Below is the testing method in the case of sporadic ordinary groups. First of all, we use two fundamental statements. Drying 1. If, in the final LDH G (°), the identity A ° (A ° A) = B is performed, then G (°) is a quasi -group. LDG with such an identity is called symmetrical [1]. Drying 2. If G (°) is a symmetric LDK, then the Z (G) group is resolved. In the conjugation class, we introduce simple groups π, and the binary operation ft will determine as follows: a ° b = ABA - 1. It is easily checked that axioms 1 and 2 are performed. The third axiom is equivalent to the requirement of the absence in the gushing elements. Elements Z (G) are the conjugation of the elements of the group π, and due to simplicity π group Z (G) isomorphic π. From sentences 1 and 2 it immediately follows that in any class of involutions there are switching elements. 90 In research, the following two elements of tare facts are also useful. Drying 3. Let class G consists of P-elements, and the final group π does not contain switching elements of Comrade. Then the centralizer C (A) contains the Silovskaya P-group. Indeed, the broadcast of LA as a substitution of many G has the only motionless element, and the orbit of the remaining elements have lengths, multiple p. Therefore, | G | = (Π: c (a)) 6 = 1 mod p, and c (a) contains GP. Sentence 4. Let A - element of order N in the final group π, and G is the class of this element. If the number of classes in π power | G | Less ∗ (n), where ∗ (n) is the function of the Euler, then G contains switching elements. In fact, among the degrees X we have ffic (n) elements of the same order n. Among them there are a couple of lying in the same class. Let Xa = sxbs - 1. Since A, B are mutually simple with N, there are whole U, v, such that AU + NV = 1. Then X = XAU = SXBUS -1 ∼ XBU. Elements of XAU and XBU are different, as the XA and XB are different. Thus, G contains switching elements X and XBU. Verification of sporadic groups using the above proposals requires only knowledge of the procedure for the addition of classes and the orders of centralizers of the latter. C with responsible information is available in [3] and [4]. As a result, it was reached that the classes of conjugation in sporadic groups G, and even in Autg groups, when the latter is not isomorphic G, with the switching elements are kept. 91 work was carried out with the support of the RFFIF, project No. 05-01 00580. L and Tr. T R A 1. Erofeeva L.N. About one class of groups // Notes of scientific seminars M and in addition. - 2003. - T. 305. 2. Galkin V.M. About symmetric quasi -groups // Umn. - 1984. - T. 39. 3. Conway J.H., Curtis R.T., Norton S.P. Atlas of Finite Groups. - Oxford, 1985. 4. Syskin S.A. Abstract properties of simple dispute groups // Umn. -1980.-T. 5. The functions of the HK state and movement of gyroscopic systems Yu. V. Ershov Nizhny Novgorod State University named after N.I. Lobachevsky, eryv@yandex.ru Let (b, h)-Rimanovo diversity, F and U-corresponded to a closed 2-form and smooth function on B. Four γ = (b, h, f, u) Call a natural mechanical system with gyroscopic forces or, in short, gyroscopy system. At the same time, B is a configuration diverse system of the system, h/2 - the form of kinetic energy, f - the form of gyroscopic forces, U - potential energy. The bench press is that the function U is positive, and the form F has before the staging f = θφ, where θ ∈ R and φ is a closed 2-form, the integrals of which are integrally smooth in all two-dimensional smooth spheres. If integral from f