. The method of the smallest squares of the solutions of multidimensional weak -random integral equations of R.K. Gubaidullin Kazan State University, Grenata@mail.ru is considered a weak -random integral equation AU ≡ U (x) + ∫ d h (x, y) u (y) rα DY = F ( x), 0 6 α <2, (1) where D is the circle of a single radius, x = (x1, x2), y = (y1, y2) - its points, r - Euclidean distance from the beginning of the coordinates to 66 points y, h (x, y) ∈ C (d × D), f (x) ∈ L2 (D) - specified, and U (y) - the desired functions. Let L2 = L2 (D)-the space is quadratic-sucking in the circle of functions with the usual scalar work and the norm. Take a complete orthonormal system of functions {ψk (x)} ughter (ψk ∈ L2) (as such a system, for example, the system of ultrasferic polynomens can be used (for example, [1], § 40)). We will look for the approximate solution of equation (1) in the form of the amount un (x) = n∑ k = 1 γkψk (x), x ∈ D, n ∈ N, (2) and unknown coefficients γk to find from the system of linear algebraic equations (SLOUS ) n∑ k = 1 γk (aψk, aψj) = (f, aψj), j = 1 ,. . . , n. (3) Theorem. Let the following conditions be met: 1) f (x) ∈ L2 (D) and H (X, Y) ∈ L2 (D × D); 2) equation (1) is unambiguously resolved in L2 for any praise of the part. Then, with all natural ns (3), it has the only solution γ ∗ k (k = 1,., N), and close decisions (2) converge to the exact solution U ∗ (x) on average with a speed determined by inequalities En (u ∗) 2 6 ‖un - u ‖2 6 ‖a‖ − –1‖‖en (u ∗) 2, where en (u ∗) 2 is the best medium -valuable approximation of the function u ∗ purpose l2 by elements type (2). 67 L and Tr. The theory of orthogonal polynomials. - M. - L., 1950. Modeling the non -fertile collapse of the air bubble in the water of T. S. Gusev Institute of Mechanics and Mechanics of the execution of the RAS, guseva@kfti.knc.ru numerous studies by a single -pussy Sonoli non -centers - the glow of the micron wave bubble in whose sound wave - indicate in favor of the hypothesis that the light outbreak is the result of a strong compaction and heating the contents of the bubble in the final stage of its compression in the phase of increasing the pressure of the surrounding fluid [1]. This phenomenon represents a significant practical integration and is used, in particular, to activate chemical reactions. In addition, it served as a starting point for well -known experiments on acoustic cavitation in the edited acetone [2]. In the above examples, one of the most important aspects is the preservation of the shape of the bubble close to the spherical. In the general case, the evolution of disturbances of the spherical form of the PULLLOW must be studied by direct numerical modeling. But in view of the complexity of this approach, the movement of liquid styles and gas, as a rule, is considered in the form of a superposition of the spherical movement and its small non -phase disturbance. In models known from the literature, which are included in the equation for the amplitude of indignation of the spherical shape of the bubble, spherical components of speed gradients (as well as 68