Normal connectedness on the well -equipped non -unconnected hyperputs of the conformal space of A. M. Matveev Chuvash State Pedagogical University, Cheboksary, Caf_geom_chgpu@mail.ru, some issues of the geometry of affin and normal connectednesses induced by the complete equipping of the conformal hyperpoons of the conformal about wandering are considered. The study of the external differs of the reality forms of E. Cartan and the theoretical and group method G.F. Lapteva (continuation and coverage method). In the work, the indices accept the following values: j, k = 1 ,. . . , n; I, j, k, s = 1 ,. . . - N - 1; ᾱ = 0, n. The theorem 1. With complete equipment with the fields of quasiTiors X0i, X 0 N distribution m, immersed in the conformal about the wanderings of CN, on the sub -image, the space of the affinity of AN, N -1, the base of which is the conform space CN. The space of an, N -1 is a waylev (generally speaking, with a wiping) with a metrica gij metric field and an additional form θ def = ω00 −x0k ωk0; This space is generalized by Rimanov then and only when the tensors Tij Def = x0 [ij] - x 0 nλ n [ij], tin def = 2x0 [in] + x 0 k ni - x0nλnin turn into zero. 160 Theorem 2. If the space of affinity AN, N -1, induced on a well -equipped distribution m, has zero torsion, then the Orthogonal distribution H and the initial submarine M are a dimensional. In the work, the conditions of immobility of the tangent of the PN PN PN with displacement along the curves L, belonging to the distribution m. Upon fulfilling these conditions, the initial border is called spherical. The theorem 3. With the complete equipping of the distribution of M of the conformal space CN, Rimanov’s generality of the wanderings A, N -1 has zero twisting then and only the GDA when the initial distribution M is spherical. Theorem 4. On the well -equipped distribution of M of the conformal space CN in the stratification of circles [Pi], normal connectivity 0 ∇⊥, determined by the system of forms {0 θᾱn}, where 0 θ0n = ω 0 n - x0iωin + 1 2 [gnng ksx0kx 0 s 0 s 0 s + (x 0 n) 2] ωn0, 0 θnn = ω n n - ω00 + x0jω j 0 + x 0 nω n 0, and form 0 θnn determines the subsidiary 0 ∇̃⊥ coherence 0 ∇⊥. Theorem 5. Normal subsidiability 0 ∇̃⊥ connectedness 0 ∇⊥ flat (that is, connectedness 0 ∇⊥-half-sulfur) then and only when the AN, N-1 space is generalized by Rimanov. Theorem 6. If on a well -equipped distribution M ∈ CN is induced by Rimanov’s generality without a circle of 161, then the submarine M is quite equipped with the fields of quasi of the tensors λ0i, λ 0 n of the first order. In this case, the normal connectivity 0 ∇⊥ is semi -folly then and only when the tensor x0 [jk] turns to zero. Theorem 7. Normal connectivity 0 ∇⊥, induced by the complete equipment of the distribution m ∈ Cn, allowing the appeal to zero tensor x0ni def = x0ni - x0nx0i - x0kλkni, along the curves belonging to the distribution M, is flat and only when it is semi -flat. Note that the distribution class m, for which x0ni ≡ 0 is not empty; For example, this class belongs to the spherical distribution m. The study of the problem of refraction on the free surface of the gas-gazydoskoskaya environment with the unexplored front of the refracted shock wave A. A. Matutin Saratov State University named after N. G. Chernyshevsky, Matutinaa@mail.ru The study of the characteristic features of the reference processes and the possibility of their practical use present a complex task that is relevant with practical and theoretical accurate vision. The theoretical importance of the problem is biased by the nonlinearity of the main equations and the complex time of the jerking nature of solutions. In the work, the boundaries of the existence of various RIMS of refraction with the unexplored front of refracted 162 were obtained