The experience of applying symbolic mathematics and mathematical modeling in the structure of secondary mathematical education A. I. Gibadullin Tatar State Humanitarian and Pedagogical University, Kazan in the context of an accelerated increase in information and a deficiency of laboratory equipment of schools, as well as the time allocated to study objects of physical and mathematics The cycle, mathematical modeling, according to the author, is one of the possible ways to preserve the country's intellectual potential and identifying talented young people. For a number of reasons, school education does not develop modeling skills and appropriate modeling. This often explains the low level of mathematical and creative thinking, as well as the inability to bring “to the number” and a specific form, the mathematical result, correctly interpret it. Modern computer technology helps to overcome these shortcomings of school education. Packets of symbolic mathematics and, in particular, Maple package open a new and promising way to solve problems. The possibilities of using the package in the teaching of physical and mathematical disciplines: the development of the material at a more serious level, the exact and high-quality graphic display of the analytically obtained renovates, the formation and development of model thinking, the development of scientific creativity, the organization of circle work with a fundamentally new content. Experience with this package for four years in secondary school No. 57 of the city of Kazan under the leadership of the Laboratory of Information of the Information NOVOLOGIES AT THE Department of the Geometry of the Tatar State Humanitarian and Pedagogical University confirms the said provisions and convinces the possibilities, and, according to the author, and the need to implement the implementation of the introduction computer mathematics KI in the general educational structure. According to the results of a short period, we can draw some conclusions about the influence of that serious mathematical program on the intellectual potential of adolescents and the methodological possibilities of its application by the teacher. Positive educational and educational results include: the development of the thought of teling processes; The deepening of the knowledge of the subject, before all, theoretical foundations, which ensures their conscious when menia and expands the range of tasks; the formation of mathematical literacy; the formation and development of modeling thinking; expansion of the possibilities of scientific creativity; The tendency of students in the final result of their workers, a responsible attitude to the specific stages of activity; Improving computer ownership. Methodical and professional capabilities: illustration of the results of mathematical modeling and research of the built model; accurate and high -quality graphic display of the results of the results; a visual presentation of the most difficult topics of the course; the creation of your own manuals, including interactive, quality from the methodological, on a scientific, publishing point of view; A promising teaching of the subject, etc., as examples demonstrating the use of the Maple package in school mathematics, lead fragments of interactive developments made by the media of this package. 57