. Symmetry of Simmorphic crystallographic groups in the tasks of the theory of branching B.V. Loginov, O. V. Makeev Ulyanovsk State Technical University, O.Makeev@ulstu.ru, loginov@ulstu.ru in the theory of branching of non -linear equations, the tasks of impaired symmetry, When decisions with the symmetry of crystallographic groups, i.e., are born, that, when crossing the cavalry parameter, the bifur transition, that is, decisions with a symmetry of the broadcast lattice. Our works of the last two years have been continuing research on the subgroup structure of solutions of stationary and dynamic bifurcation problems with symmetry of senior critical systems of crystalline systems (algonium). In this work, the results obtained are illustrated by the example of a volume -centered γVQ grate of Chemical Class D4H. The volumetric -centered grate γ v q is composed of displacements A1 = TX, A2 = TY (A1 = A2) along mutually perpendicular to the second -order axes OX and OY and the display A3, which consists with the basic displacements A1 and A2 A3 - 12 (A1 + A2) ⊥ A1, A2, determines the displacement TZ = 2A3 - (A1 + A2), belonging to the lattice. Vector 1/2TZ 158 does not belong to the grill. The role of the invariant six of the vector is played by ± A1, ± A2, ± (2A3 - (A1 +A2)). The action of the group D4H is generated by rotation R on the angle π/2 around OZ, rotating U1 on the angle π around Ox, by reflection σh in the plane Xoy and the ratios UI = R 3UI-1, I = 2, 3, 4, σj = σHuj, J = one, . . . , 4. In the subgroup structure of D4H, the following grapes of subgroups are distinguished (the designations of point groups according to Schenflis are used): Fig. 1 subgroups C4H, D4, D (1) 2H, D (2) 2D, C4, C (1) 2H, S4, D (1) 2, D (2) 2, C (1) 2V, C (1) 2, S2, C (1) 0H are normal divisors, on the drawing they are highlighted in semi -fat lines. According to the scheme of group analysis of differential equations and its computer reaction, analytical equations of branching of one hundred zionic and dynamic bifurcation are written out. The structure of 159 equations of branches of the solutions of invariant regarding subgroups and the structure of branching solutions were built. The affin and normal connectedness on the well -equipped non -unliped hyperperse of the conformal space of A. M. Matveev Chuvash State Pedagogical University, the city of Cheboksary, CAF_GEOM_CHGPU@mail.ru, some issues of the geometry of the affin and normal connectedness, induced by the complete equipment of the non -clown hyperpan of the conformal surgery. The study of the external differs of the reality forms of E. Cartan and the theoretical and group method G.F. Lapteva (continuation and coverage method). In the work, the indices accept the following values: j, k = 1 ,. . . , n; I, j, k, s = 1 ,. . . - N - 1; ᾱ = 0, n. The theorem 1. With complete equipment with the fields of quasiTiors X0i, X 0 N distribution m, immersed in the conformal about the wanderings of CN, on the sub -image, the space of the affinity of AN, N -1, the base of which is the conform space CN. The space of an, N -1 is a waylev (generally speaking, with a wiping) with a metrica gij metric field and an additional form θ def = ω00 −x0k ωk0; This space is generalized by Rimanov then and only when the tensors Tij Def = x0 [ij] - x 0 nλ n [ij], tin def = 2x0 [in] + x 0 k ni - x0nλnin turn into zero. 160