. Model of a gradient continuum obtained from the discrete microstructure of Yu. M. Prokhorov Nizhny Novgorod branch of the Institute of Machine Studies named after A.A. Blagonravova RAS, Nizhny Novgorod, pum2000@front.ru In the last decade, when modeling mechanical processes in structurally heterogeneous materials, gradient models are widely used, the first theory for which was built by Mindlin in 1964. In particular, the theory of grade continuums is used to describe dispersion waves in heterogeneous materials. Such a dispersion can be accurately described using a homogeneous gradient of the Non Continuum. However, in order to get an acceptable accuracy of the 179th description, the obtained model must be dynamic to the Skinny. In addition, the use of gradient models is convenient, since, unlike the classic mo deeds, a gradient continuum allows you to closely take into account the influence of the structural heterogeneity of the material. The work is devoted to the withdrawal of isotropic, dynamically uninterrupted model of the gradient theory of elasticity [2]. For you, the water of the main equations uses the continuation of the equations of the movement of a regular cubic lattice. Along with the classical method of continuation, which leads to dynamically contradictory movement equations, an alternative method of continuation is extinguished [1], capable of eliminating this disadvantage. Equations obtained by the alternative method contain two additional parameters: the ha -racer size of heterogeneity l and the parameter is inconsolably in the user Q, which is implicitly responsible for the characteristic time of the spread of waves between heterogeneities: ρui, tt - ρl2q (ui, jj), tt = 2 5 e (UI, JJ + 2uj, ij) + 1 18 EL2 (UI, JJ + 4uj, IJ), KK - 2 5 EL2Q (UI, JJ + 2uj, IJ), KK, where UI (X1, X2, X3, t) - the displacement of the resulting continuum in the board XI, m = ρl 3, k = el/6, ν = 1/4, i, j, k = 1, 2, 3. In the work, the conditions for the tights necessary for obtaining were obtained gradient isotropic continuum. Find the function of the function of the Lagrange Continuum λ, which paved to the only way to determine the natural grains of the inconsistent for the resulting continuum in accordance with the variational principle of Hamilton - Ostrograd: σij = - ∂λ ∂ui, j + ∂xk ∂λ ∂ui, jk - jk - jk - jk - jk - jk. ∂2 ∂t∂xk ∂λ ∂u̇i, jk - ∂2 ∂xk∂xl ∂λ ∂ui, jkl, 180 τijk = - ∂λ ∂ui, jk + ∂t ∂λ ∂u̇i, jk + ∂xxl ∂λ ∂ui, jkl. The mathematical model obtained in this work can be used to solve the regional problems associated with the analysis of the dynamic behavior of materials with the microstructure of the tour. L and T R A T R A 1. ASKes H., Metrikine A.V. Higher-Order Continua Derved from Discrete Media: Continualism Aspects and Boundary Conditions // Int. J. Of Solids and Structures. - 2005. - V. 42. - P. 187–202. 2. Metrikin A.V., Prokhorova Yu.M. On the output of the dynamically consistent model of the gradient theory of elasticity of the continuialization of the regularization of the regular lattice // Mathematical modeling of systems and processes. - 2006. - No. 14. - S. 133–141. Clarifications of the inequality of Fire - Jackson A. A. Putintsev Bashkir State University, mail.bashedu.ru in 1910. Fayer put forward a hypothesis of the justice of negligence n∑ k = 1 sinkx k> 0, 0 <x <π; n = 1, 2 ,. . . . In 1911, Jackson proved the validity of this inequal, therefore it is called the inequality of Fire -Jackson. Since then, the generalizations of this inequality were dedicated to many 181