The reverse task of the reflection and refraction of elastic waves in the layered environment of I. L. Alexandrov Kazan State University considers a two -layer elastic environment, for each layer of which density, elasticity and coefficients of Poisson are set. On the border of the section of the first and second layers, a longitudinal elastic wave with a given amplitude falls. As a result of this, longitudinal and pepper waves that go to infinity appear in the first layer. The reverse task boils down to restoring the thickness of the second layer according to a well -known wave field in the first layer with well -known elastic parameters of the environment. Seismic exploration equipment allows you to measure the deviations of the soil layer from the rest of the rest when a wave of a certain type passes. By virtue of the principle of superposition of elastic waves, the task is considered to be the spread of only on the ground waves. On the border of the first and second layers at the production of the dots, we place the seismic receivers, which the way to measure the movements of ũy (XI, T), I = 1,. . . , N, in normal at time t. The thickness of the layer H is searched from the condition n∑ i = 1 m∑ j = 1 (ũy (XI, tj) - u ′ y (xi, h, tj) 2 → 0, (1) where the movements u ′ y (XI, H, tj) on the border are folded from the straps for a falling wave field and resulting from a reflected wave field. Problem (1) is solved by gradient descent. This task has several solutions. Knowing the structure of the earth's 15 crust and the rate of spread of longitudinal waves in its different layers, additional restrictions can be applied to the thickness of the layer. In calculations, as the first layer, it was taken from Black Sea, as a second layer - marble. Only one decision turned out that satisfies these restrictions. L and T R A T R A 1. GRINCHENKO V.T., Meleshko V.V. Harmonic vibrations and waves in elastic bodies. - Kyiv: Sciences. Dumka, 1981. - 284 p. 2. Pleshchinsky N.B. Reflection, refraction and diffraction of two -dimensional elastic waves. The method of the redundant task of the Koshi // Preprint PMF-04-01. - Kazan: Kazan. matte. STO-VO, 2004.-34 p. 3. Alexandrova I.L. The direct task of the reflection and the pretense of elastic waves in the layered environment // Tr. Matte. center named after N.I. Lobachevsky. T. 32. Mathematical modeling and mathematical physics. -Kazan: Publishing house Kazan. matte. About VA, 2005. - S. 50–59. Gelfand formula-Levitan for the differential operators of the 2nd Order with the non-cranky potential of E.F. Akhmerov Bashkir State University, Ufa in L2 (0, π) Consider the operator h = h0 + v, where h0 = −d2/dx2, V is the multiplication operator by the material function V (x) ∈ L2 (0, π). In the future, the operator H is generated by one of the following conditions: a) u (0) = u (π) = 0; b) u ′ (0) = u ′ (π) = 0; c) u (0) = u ′ (π) = 0. 16