The impact of elastic waves on the obstacle of M. L. Smirnov Nizhny Novgorod State University named after N. I. Lobachevsky, Rector@unn.ru Interest in the influence of waves on their prevention reflecting their prevention arose for a very long time and is associated with the assumption that waves of any physical nature, when interacting with any obstacle, show it not equal to zero media Pressure, like the pressure of electromagnetic waves from the surface of the surface. There are various opinions about what the mechanism of the operation of waves on the border of the environment. To resolve this issue, the concept of “wave impulse” is often used [1]. It is the change in this value in the interaction of the wave with the preference that the appearance of pressure is explained, which is also called "wave pressure." The indicated characteristics are inherent only to distributed systems, they are quadratic in the amplitude of deformations and have the following basic properties: the impulse is always directed towards the waves of the waves, the pressure is always positive, that is, the obstacle is always repelled by a rowing wave. The concept of “wave pressure”, designed to explain the wavy process on the barrier, itself leads to tivores. To illustrate this in the work, it was considered for the summer cottage of longitudinal vibrations of a one -dimensional elastic system consisting of a large number of particles of mass M, interconnected by elastic springs [2]. Pressure on the border during system fluctuations is determined by deformation of the extreme spring. Unlike “wave pressure”, the pressure in a given 190 task occurs only in the presence of nonlinearity and can be either more or less than zero. An essential point is that the wave characteristic considered, quadratic in the amplitude of deformations, is used in the reign of the linearized task. In the case of transverse vibrations of the elastic system, especially solving the problem of problem in nonlinear production is the connection of transverse and longitudinal movements. At the same time, the answer to the question about the pressure of waves on the boundary of the environment depends on the type of boundary condition, which illustrates the static task of determining the loads when deforming the stretched string under the action of constant transverse load. It is shown that the case of hard fixing, limiting both the longitudinal and transverse displacements of the string points, significantly distinguishes from the case when only transverse displacements are prohibited. The reactions of the supports at the marked points are different. The arising longitudinal effort at the location of the limiter is a nonlinear effect, because the solution of the problem in linear setting leads to the zero significance of this effort. The noted fact must be borne in mind when studying the operations of the waves excited during fluctuations with elastic systems, we, reflecting their obstacle. Upon receipt of the equalization of movement and ratios for calculating efforts at the border, it is necessary to take into account the density of the function of the lagrange of us above the quadratic displacements and derivatives. Thus, the approach using the concept of “wave pressure”, which involves the solution of the problem of the impact of the wave on the obstacle in linear production, is incorrect. The work was carried out with the support of the RFFI, project 06-01-00368. 191 l and t e rn a 1. Ostrovsky L.A., Potapov A.I. Introduction to the theory of moistened waves. - M.: Fizatlit, 2003. 2. Denisov G.G. On the wave impulse and efforts that arise on the border of a one -dimensional elastic system // Izv. RAS. MTT. - 1994. - No. 1. - C. 42–51. Solving the reverse regional problem of aerohydrodynamics for the suspicimetric body S. A. Solovyov Kazan State University, Sergey.Solovyov@ksu.ru. One of the main tasks of aerohydrodynamics is the races of the aerodynamic characteristics of the body in the current fluid. Such tasks are called direct, and many methods have been developed for their solution (see, for example, [1]). In addition, the reverse tasks are of interest in which the form of the streamlined body (for example, [2]) is required by the given characteristics. These tasks are also well studied, in many cases analytical solutions have been obtained. However, most of these works are devoted to flat currents. In the spatial case, obtaining an analytical solution causes great difficulties, the solution methods are mainly iterative and implemented only in frequent cases. In this work, the reverse task is considered in the structure of the suspicimetric body according to a given speed distribution V1 (S). The approach to the solution of the problem is the venerable in the work [3] the Iteration method based on the combine 192