. The solution of integrated equations by the combined method of bursts and neural networks D.V. Shmykov Kazan State University, dmitryshm@mail.ru proposed a scheme for solving integrated equations that take in various sections of natural sciences based on 221 on the combined use of bursts and neural sectors. To designate neural networks, in which bursts are the basic processor elements, uses the term WaveNES (see, for example, [1-3]). Algorithms of an approximate solution of regional problems The basis on close methods of solving integrated equi, where the unknown function is approaching the suspended sum of these basic elements. The target function is introduced from the vehicle, limited from below zero. A multi-extremal task is to minimize this function according to the parameters-spring. The option of building a network with the target function based on the LMS filter (Least Mean Squares Filter) was used [4]. On each iteration, a combination of the values ​​of the owl is stored, for which the value of the target function lies in the determined surroundings of the current best solution. The weights are related according to the selected network training algorithm. About the cess is supposed to be converging for known integral equations using gradient teaching methods [5]. The task of substantiating the described method for the reinforcement of the tasks has been studied. Networks are built with the aim of further operation on previously not solved equations. The possibility of predicting the hypothetical solution of not yet studied equations was investigated, the possibility of which is described in the book [5]. L and T R A T R A 1. Chaplin J. WaveNES. - http://www.cs.berkeley.edu/ 2. Chaplin J. WaveNets: A New (?) Model for Parallel Servers - http://sdg.lcs.mit.edu/~jchapin/. 3. Thuillard M. Intelligence 222 and Learning: Methods and Applications. - 2002. - P. 43 - 60 4. Lekutai G. Adaptive Self -Tuning Neuro Wavelet Network Cont Rollers: Ph.D. Thesis, Virginia State University, 1997. - 122 p. 5. Terekhov V.A., Efimov D.V., Tyukin I. Yu. Neurosete management systems. - M.: Higher. ShK., 2002. - 183 p. Modular classes and canonical homologies of Poasson structures on R2 V.V. Shurygin (ml.) Kazan State University, vadimjr@ksu.ru let m - smooth diversity. We will denote the alge of the BRU of smooth functions on m through CU (M), a ring of differential forms on m through ω ∗ (M) and the outer algebra to the Sosymmetric controversial tensor fields on M through V ∗ (M). The Poisson's tensor (or the puasson structure) on M is the tensor w ∈ V2 (m), such that [w, w] = 0, where [·, · · · bastard of teenachis on v ∗ (m) [1]. The variety of M, endowed with Poisson's tensor W, is called Puas with a sleepy variety and is denoted by a symbol (M, W). Operator σ: vk (m) → vk+1 (m), acting according to the rule σu: = [w, u], satisfies equality σ ° σ = 0. Therefore, the complex (v ∗ (m), σ) is determined and determined The spaces of his clamps HKP (M, W) called the claws of Yami Poisson Poassonov (M, W). 223