The new MKE scheme for solving the flat task of the theory of elasticity of K. M. Gladilshchikov Nizhny Novgorod State University, Gladilsh@mail.@mail.ru a number of numerical schemes for solving flat in the problems of the theory of elasticity are known. They can be built on the basis of finite, variational and characteristic methods or methods of final elements (MKE). However, the current MKE schemes existing also have virtues and disadvantages [1]. Accordingly, if the if it is obviously unsuccessful schemes, the area of ​​effective applicability of each scheme is limited. Therefore, the problem of building new numerical schemes with improved properties continues to be relevant. In this work, a new approach is proposed to the construction of two -dimensional schemes based on a three -dimensional openwork scheme of MKE [2]. The construction of the scheme is considered on the example of a linear dyan of a mycual task of the theory of elasticity, although it can be applied to other tasks of mathematical physics. Famous MKE schemes suggest that the final elements occupy the estimated area all the time - without the interval and without overlapping. However, the rejection of the requirement of continuous filling of the region with elements is also possible - in the sense that the elements involved in the formation of the system of algebraic equations fill out the calculation of the fins with the intervals. An example of a successful scheme of this kind when solving problems of the theory of shells is given in [3]. This scheme showed advantages compared to the standard scheme on linear triangular elements. 58 Another example of an openwork scheme is proposed in [2]. This is a hal solution of three -dimensional problems on the basis of a linear final element in the form of a tetrahedron. Several methods are known for the structure of regular nets on tetrahedral cells. With one of them, the cell of the main grid (parallelepiped) is divided into 5 tetrahedron - 1 in the center and 4 at the edges. If you remove all the tetrahedron, except for the central one, we will get the desired MKE scheme. At the same time, the division of the area into elements is as follows: the region is divided into hexagons, and even one of them remains one tetrahedron in each of them. At the same time, it turns out that not all nodes of a variable grid participate in the calculations, but only nodes with an even amount of indices. This scheme is completely symmetrical, since the tetrahedron is located symmetrically relative to the center of the cube. The scheme has on an orthogonal rhythmant grid the second procedure for proximation. When solving dynamic problems on the obvious scheme (or with an iteration solution of the system in an implicit scheme), computational costs for one temporary layer (one iteration) for a given scheme are 2 to 5 times lower than for the traditional scheme on tetrahedrals or for a bilinear hexagonal ale cop. In the case of using the obvious “Cross” scheme, this scheme is stable under the same conditions as the scheme of the bilinear final element. We also note that the full template (surroundings of the node) of this scheme has the form of multifaceted Nick, which is significantly closer to the ball than a cube. Consequently, sheer anisotropy should be lower than, for example, in the scheme of the hexagonal bilinear final element. We will build a numerical solution to a two -dimensional problem by designing a three -dimensional scheme on a plane. At the same time, the H3 - the step of breaking the grid in the third coordinate - is 59 in a parameter of a numerical scheme, selected for consideration of stability and accuracy. We write down the first two equations of the Lama system, while we will take into account the fact that we are considering a two -dimensional task. Assessments of the temporary step of this two -dimensional scheme can be obtained from the analysis of a three -dimensional openwork scheme, which is carried out by harmonica based on the spectral criterion for the stability of the neumann. The condition of stability for the openwork scheme coincides with the condition of Kunta, where the minimum height is taken as a characteristic size, or the minimum distance between the pairs of the crossed ribs of the tetraeral cell. This scheme may also be characterized by the effect of boundary instability described in [2]. With the corresponding selection of the H3 parameter from this drawback, you can trigger. L and T R A T R A 1. Golovanov A.I., Tyuleneva O.N., Shigabutdinov A.F. TOD of the final elements in statics and the dynamics of thin constructions. - M.: Fizatlit, 2006. 2. Chekmarev D.T. Openwork schemes of the final element method // Applied problems of strength and plasticity. Numerical modeling of physical and mechanical processes: Interuniversity. Sat. - M., 1997. 3. Bazhenov V.G., Chekmarev D.T. On the index switchgear of numerical differentiation // J. Calculation. mat. And matte. physical. - 1989. - T. 29. - No. 5. - S. 662–674. 60