The kinetic approach to the description of primary black holes in the early Universe A. A. Agafonov, Yu. G. Ignatiev Tatar State Humanitarian and Pedagogical University, Kazan, Agafonov_tggpu@mail.ru In recent years in cosmology, the basic provisions of the so-called standard standard are being revised in cosmology The script (SCS), primarily caused by the latest observant data by the value of the “constant” Hubbla and the absence of false results expected from the theory of the great volume of fundamental interactions. In this situation, alternative cosmological scenarios arose, designed to eliminate the shortcomings of the SCS. One of them is SCA Narius of a nonequilibrium universe, which puts the fundamental principle of a model of a hot universe under the doubt - the original thermodynamic balance. In this scenario, the problem of the origin of the initial super -tag of the Large particles arises. We consider here the phenomenological model of the original spatio-temporal geometry foam, which is described by the random distribution of primary black holes (ICD) by masses, coordinates and skills. Then the evolution of foam into a state of ordinary matter is determined by the interaction of this statistical system with a statistical system of elementary particles. This mutation can occur through the channels of the quantum evidence of the bee, the accretion of matter on the bee, scattering photons on the bee, etc. In this work, model for the cottage is considered, when only the processes of the collision of the inlets are taken into account. Taking into account these processes and in the assumption of uniformity and 9 isotropic distribution function, a kinetic equation was obtained relative to it: √ m2 + p 2 (∂fpchd ∂t - pḣ ∂fpchd ∂p) = - fpchdm τ (m) + 2πm4g2 p p + ∫ p + p + p + p + p + p. - f (p) f (√ m2 + p 2 - p) dp, where p∓ = m 2 [2 (√ m2 + p ± p] −1, p is the pulse of the bee. It can be strictly proved that its integral consequences are the laws of preserving the number of particles and energy. In the assumption of the initial step -by -step distribution of the ICD according to the impetus, the laws of their evolution are explored. / Iz. Universities. Physics.-1986.-T. 29.-No. 2.-P. 27. 2. Ignat'ev yu. G., ziatdinov R.A. Diffusion Model of Evolution of Superthermal High-Energy Under Scaling in Early Universe // Gravitation & Cosmology. - 2006. - V. 12. - No 4. - P. 27. Animation procedures of geometric constructions in the Maple package N. R. Ageeva, Yu. G. Ignatiev Tatar State Humanitarian and Pedagogical University, Kazan, Ageeva-nat@mail.ru, ignatev_yu@rambler.ru Analytical geometry contains questions that are traditionally difficult for students. This is, first of all, concepts 10