The numerical method of solving the mixed reverse edge problem of aerohydrodynamics I. M. Kamalutdinov Nimm named after N. G. Chebotareva Kazan State University, islamui@mi.ru in direct regional tasks of aerohydrodynamics of the roof profile is considered known, and it is required to find its aerodynamic characteristics with the specified parameters of the emerging flow. In the reverse tasks, the wing profile is found according to the distribution of speed or pressure set on its circuit. Such tasks are incorrect in Adamaru, and to solve them, the KVA KVA method is successfully used [1]. The marginal task of aerohydrodynamics is called mixed, if the part of the wing contour about 119 filles is known in advance, and the other must be found according to a given distribution of speed or pressure. It combines difficulties in solving lines and reverse problems. The article [2] proposes an iterative method that allows one of the above -related tasks, when the boundary conditions are set as the functions of arc abscissa of the profile contour. In this work, an analysis of the solution of direct, reverse and mixed tasks with the iteration method set forth in [2]. As the first approximation of the speed distribution on the profile circuit, a piece of linear function was used. To satisfy the conditions of permissibility, the quasi -free method is applied. Summarizing the solution of the problem in case of viscous fluid was carried out according to the border layer model. The idea of ​​G.Yu. Stepanova, consisting in the fact that all the iterations of the solution of a mixed problem for a viscous fluid are carried out according to the fashion of the ideal inconspicuous fluid, except for the latter. The solution method is implemented in the form of a program, a series of calculation of direct and reverse tasks was carried out in the case of an ideal inconspicuous fluid and in the case of a viscous fluid. Comparison of these result of Tats with well -known analytical solutions showed their good coincidence. L and T R A T R A 1. Elizarov A.M., Ilyinsky N.B., Potashev A.V. The reverse regional tasks of aerohydrodynamics - M.: Nauka, 1994. - 440 p. 2. Ilyinsky N.B., Fokin D.A. Idration method of spinning tasks of aerohydromechanics // g. deduct. mat. And Ma that. physical. - 1995. - T. 35. - No. 11. - S. 1729–1740. 120