. Animation procedures of geometric constructions in the Maple package N. R. Ageeva, Yu. G. Ignatiev Tatar State Humanitarian and Pedagogical University, Kazan, Ageeva-nat@mail.ru, ignatev_yu@rambler.ru analytical geometry contains questions, traditionally Complex for students. These are, first of all, the concepts of 10 vectors and vector operations, coordinate systems, requiring spatial imagination, and those associated with these in the nits of the mutual arrangement of direct and planes in the space, the properties of curves and surfaces. In addition, there is also a well -known psychological barrier that occurs when the Siomatics are transition from constructive school AK to analytical, based on the coordinate method. The drawings of spatial figures performed on the board by the pre -feeder are uninformative and often difficult to fulfill. Their only advantage is to recognize the dynamics of constructing the image of the figure in the event that the teacher masterfully owns the technique of Cherge. In this regard, there is a need to use to a full demonstration material, which would differ in greater clarity and dynamism and contained high -quality interactive three -dimensional images and ani -matting models of computing processes. Similar models illustrating physical phenomena and processes are built in the courses of theoretical mechanics and mathematical physics near the authors (see www.exponenta.ru). In geometry, especially rich graphics and so in need of high -quality demonstration material, there is a significant gap in this regard. The methodological problems that arise in connection with this situation can be solved on the basis of a package of symbolic mathematics Maple. We describe some elements of animation procedures for which we have created special user libraries. The basic principle of pyu and at the same time the stages of creating animation procedures of geometric constructions: • The mathematical model of the geometric figure A (system of equations and inequalities) is built; 11 • This model is subjected to geometric transformations, the parameters of which may be the parameter of the animation (for example, physical time t can be associated with the rotation angle ng), as a result, the fuh (t) is formed; • A sequence of images of figures a (i), I = 1,. . . , N; • From sequences of images of figures a (i), new sequences b (k) = seq (a (i), i = 1,., K) are formed; • sequences b (k) are combined in one image by the Plots [Display] (seq (b (k)), k = 1..n); These objects are a sequence of frames in the animation model of construction. The report will demonstrate some examples of animated models of geometric constructions created according to the above scheme. L and T R A T R A 1. Sailor A.V. Maple 6. Solving the problems of the highest mathema of Tiki and mechanics. -St. Petersburg: BHV-Petersburg, 2001. 2. Dyakonov V. Maple 7: Educational course. - St. Petersburg: Peter, 2002. 12