. Solving the reverse regional problem of aerohydrodynamics for the suspicimetric body S. A. Solovyov Kazan State University, Sergey.Solovyov@ksu.ru. One of the main tasks of aerohydrodynamics is the races of the aerodynamic characteristics of the body in the current fluid. Such tasks are called direct, and many methods have been developed for their solution (see, for example, [1]). In addition, the reverse tasks are of interest in which the form of the streamlined body (for example, [2]) is required by the given characteristics. These tasks are also well studied, in many cases analytical solutions have been obtained. However, most of these works are devoted to flat currents. In the spatial case, obtaining an analytical solution causes great difficulties, the solution methods are mainly iterative and implemented only in frequent cases. In this work, the reverse task is considered in the structure of the suspicimetric body according to a given speed distribution V1 (S). The approach to the solution of the problem is the venerable in the work [3] The iterative method based on the combination of 192 of the well -known solution of the reverse problem for the flat servo [2] and the solution of the direct problem for the monkeys of the symmetric three -dimensional case [1]. As a result, the method has the following iteration process: • select as the initial approximation V (0) 2 (S) = V1 (S); • Find the contour L (0) from the solution of a flat reverse problem; • define V (0) 3 (S) as a solution to the direct regional problem in the sedimetric case for the contour L (0); • Calculate Δ (0) (S) = V1 (S) - V (0) 3 (S); • the new approximation of the speed distribution is determined by the formula V (1) 2 (S) = V (0) 2 (S) - λδ (0) (S); • Transition to step 2. The algorithm of the numerical implementation of the method, the composition of the Lena program was developed and numerical calculations are given. L and T R A T R A 1. Fletcher K. Computational methods in the dynamics of the Jew of bones. Per. From English: in two volumes: T. 2: Methods of calculating once personal currents. Ed. L.I. Turkach. - M., 1991. - 552 p. 2. Elizarov A.M., Ilyinsky N.B., Potashev A.V. Reverse edge tasks of aerohydrodynamics. - M.: Science, 1994 .-- 440 p. 3. Vychkilev O.A., Ilyinsky N.B., Ismagilova G.R., Potu Shev A.V., Potasheva E.V. The reverse edge of the task for solving the profiles located on the suspimimetric surface style in a layer of variable thickness // The magazine calculated. mat. And matte. physical. - 1996. - T. 36. - No. 11. - S. 134–142. 193