. Modeling strong compression of the suspicimetric gas bubble in the liquid A. A. Aganin, T. F. Khalitova Institute of Mechanics and Mechanics of the execution of the RAS, Kazan, Aganin@kfti.knc.ru Detailed Study of the Evolution of the Spherical Form of the Bubble and their impact on gas dynamics In the cavity of the PUS in the final stage of compression, it is possible only with the ability of direct numerical modeling based on the equalization of the dynamics of liquid and gas. The work presents the basic provisions of the calculation methodology designed to study the strong compression of the suspicimetric gas bubble in the bones of the bone. To describe the movement of gas in the bubble and the surrounding liquid, the equations of gas dynamics and the dyan of Miki compressed fluid are used. The method of their numerical solution is based on the famous method of Godunov for the mobile coordinate system [1]. In its classic version, this method has the first approximation order. In this work, it is shown that this approach to solve two -dimensional problems of the dynamics of the bubble is almost unacceptable 7 due to the large costs of computer time. To increase the procedure for approximation to the second, TVD and ENO schemes are usually used. When using the TVD schemes that do not increase the full variation, the procedure for approximation reduces in a number of special points, and the ENO schemes [2] provide a second procedure for approximation everywhere, but lose the indicated property of the TVD diagram. This disadvantage of the ENO schema is manifested only at the level of error of approximation, which is usually quite acceptable. In this work, the effectiveness of the application mentioned above the first and second orders of the approxxation mentioned above is evaluated by the example of the tasks of free fluctuations in the shape of the ellip of the soydal bubble and collapsing an empty ellipsoidal cavity in the liquid. It is shown that for the dynamics of the bubble considered for the dachas, the use of the ENO schemes is more preferable. The work was carried out as part of the OMMPU RAS program and with the support of the RFFIF (project 05-01-00145). L and Tr. T R A 1. Godunov S.K., Zabrodin A.V., Ivanov M.Ya., Kraiko A.N., Prokopov G.P. The numerical solution of multidimensional problems of gas dynamics. - M.: Science, 1976. 2. Harten A., Engquist B., Osher S. and Chakravarthy S.R. Unified High Order Accurate Essentially Non-Oscillatory Schemes, III // J. Comp. Phys. - 1987. - V. 71. - P. 231–303. eight