The application of the Robinson -Monroe procedure for solving the edge problem containing the random parameters of the mathematically correct setting of the contact tasks of the theory of plates and shells is to model the conditions of contact in the form of equality of the stamp movements of the border of the plate consisting of the movements of the median plane as a result of the bending and from local movements characterizing Squire deformation. According to this production, the task boils down to solving the integral equation of Fredgolm of the second kind regarding contact stresses. This work is a continuation of studies that have begun in [1]. Based on the linear theory of plates, taking into account the transverse compression in the contact area, the setting and solution of the contact problem of the interaction of the oscillating hard stamp with a rectangular plate located in the conditions of a cylindrical bend is given. The friction forces between the plate and the stamp are not taken into account. The core of the integral equation (the function of influence) was obtained on the basis of an updated theory of plates, taking into account the deformation of the transverse shift and inertia of rotation [2], and the theory of generalized functions as an accurate solution to the differential equation of the bending of the plate during established forced vibrations. To solve the integral equation, the method of information of the integral equation to the regional problem proposed by Yu.P. Artyukhin 111 for one -dimensional contact tasks and subsequently developed by S.A. Kuznetsov [3] for two -dimensional. An analytical solution to the problem was obtained and systematic numerical experiments were conducted. The impact of the position and massiveness of the overlay, deformations of the transverse shift and inertia of rotation to the spectrum of its own frequencies and the distribution of contact stresses with established forced fluctuations have been investigated. Accounting for deformations of the transverse shift and inertia of rotation does not affect the results with small thicknesses of the plates. It was established that there are such fluctuations in which the voltage level becomes significantly lower than in the case of static loading. The effect of the size of the lining on the distribution of the deflection of the median surface of the plate with established forced fluctuations has also been investigated. It is confirmed that when the frequency of the forcing force is close to the I TOY of its own frequency, the form of forced oscillations coincides with its own form of the I-th Ordinary. With a decrease in the size of the stamp, the spectrum of its own frequencies of oscillations of the plate with the stamp is shifted to the left and compacts. Therefore, a decrease in the size of the stamp increases the amount of its own forms. L and T R A T R A 1. Kuznetsov.A., Popa -Sam.A. Contact interaction of the plate and stamp with harmonic vibrations // Tr. Matte. center named after N.I. Lobachevsky. -Kazan: Publishing house Kazan. matte. STO-VA, 2007.-T. 36.-S. 125–128. 2. Volmira.S. Nonlinear dynamics of records and shells. - M.: Science, 1972 .-- 432 p. 112 3. Kuznetsov.A. A non -sinimetric contact task for a thin plate lying on the elastic base, with an extra -center position of the stamp // Mechanics of continuous media: the namesake. dock. Rep. scientific-techno. Conf. - Naberezhnye Chelny, 1982. - S. 105. A.V. Kuleshov Russian State University named after I. Kant, Arturkuleshov@nm.ru about the tensors of curvature of induced group connectedness in the variety of centered planes in the n-dimensional space PN, we continue to study the variety of BR M-Mosary planes l ∗ m = (a, lm), [2], [2 ]. In the work, the indices accept the following values: i, j. . . = 1, r; a, b. . . = 1, m; α, β. . . = m + 1, n. With the variety of BR, the main stratification of GS (BR) is associated [1]. In this stratification, the reception of Lumista sets group connectivity, determined by the field of the object of coherence γ = {γabi, γαβi, γaαi, γai, γαi}. The object of curvature of group coherence r = {rabij, rαβij, raαij, raij, rαij} is expressed through the components of the object γ and their pfafovs derivatives, for example, rabij = γ a b [i, j] - γc b [i γa | c | j]. The object of curvature forms a tensor containing 4 simple shades corresponding to the toch objects γ. Strong affectionate equipment of diversity consists in the task of the fields of analogues of the planes of Kartan 113