The dynamics of gas bubbles in liquids with small deformations of their surfaces are usually expected to be spherical when studying the features of the interaction of the bubbles of their surface [1], which leads to a significant simplification of the mathematical setting of the task. However, in the process of interaction, bubbles can be deformed 7, which can significantly affect the nature of the solution. In this work, a mathematical model of the dynamics of two interacting bubbles in a strong acoustic field is proposed, taking into account small deformations of their surfaces. When constructing it, the movement of the liquid is taken potential. The effects of viscosity and squatiness of the liquid are taken into account approximately. Gravity is not taken into account. Gas in bubbles is considered homobaric. It is assumed that as a result of the interaction, bubbles may experience small carved suspicimetric deformations. In the local spherical systems of the coordinates of bubbles with radial coordinates counted from their centers, the surface of the bubbles are presented in the form of a row Rk (θk, τ) = Rk (τ) [1 + N∑ n = 2 τ) pn (cos θk)] , where τ is time, n is the number of spherical harmonics in the view of the surface, εnk is the amplitude of the spherical form of the spherical form of the k-th bubble (k = 1, 2) in the form of spherical harmonics (polynoma Lyandra PNK degree n). Distortion of the spherical shape of the bubbles is supposed to be small, so that the value of ε2NK can be neglected compared to 1. The fluid velocity potential is represented in the form of the sum of two rows by polynomas pγk: φ = φ∑ γ = 0 bγ1 (τ) pγ (cos θ1) r γ + 1 1 + γ = 0 bγ2 (τ) pγ (cos θ2) r. γ+1 2, where the first amount is recorded in the coordinate system of the first bubble, and the second in the coordinate system of the second. The mathematical model is obtained from kinematic and dynamic contact conditions on the surfaces of the vesicles using orthogonality of the polyinomas of the Lyindra. 8 It is a system of ordinary differential equations of the second order relative to RK bubbles, the coordinates of their ZK centers on the symmetry axis and amplitudes of distortions of the spherical form of bubbles εnk. The model has the fourth order of accuracy relative to the parameter Δ = (R1 +R2)/D <1 (here D is the distance between the centers of the bubbles) characterizing the proximity of the interaction. The system of differential equations is solved numerically by the Runge -Kutta method. To verify the model and clarify the area of ​​its application, the solution to the problem of collapsing the cavitation bubble near the hard wall obtained by the method of boundary elements was used [2]. Within the framework of this model, this task is interpreted as the task of the interaction of two identical bubbles, the plane of symmetry in which coincides with the hard wall. It has been established that for distortions of the spherical form of bubbles satisfying the condition | εn | 6 0.15, there is a good coordination of the results of this work with the decision obtained in [2]. Calculations were made to analyze convergence by the number of harmonics n. It is shown that convergence is achieved at N> 5. The work was performed as part of the OMMPU RAS program and with the support of the RFFI (project codes 08-01-00215, 08-0197029). L and T R A T R A 1. Doinikova.a. Translation Motion of Two Interacting Bubbles in a Strong Acoustic Field // Phys. Rev. E. - 2001. - V. 64. - No 2. - 026301 (6 p.). 2. Plesetm.s., Chapmanr.b. Collapse of an Initially spherical vapour Cavity in the Neighbourhood of a Solid Boundary // J. Fluid 9 Mech. - 1971. - V. 47. - P. 283–290. A.A. Agafonov Tatar State Humanitarian and Pedagogical University, Agafonov_tggpu@mail.ru Study of non-linear gravimagnetic shock waves in the computer mathematics system gravimagnetic shock waves (GMV) was called the class of accurate solutions of the self-consolidated system of hydrodynamics and equations of Maxwell on the background Einstein's equations (Bondi -Pirani - Robbinson Metrics). The solution contains physical singularity on a certain wave surface, on which the invariant physical characteristics of the plasma are singular. To eliminate the singularity in [1], a model equation of energy balance was built, taking into account the process of transformation of the energy of a flat gravitational wave into the electromagnetic energy of the plasma: y′2 + ₽22 (y - p - 1) = υ2g2 (x), (1) where y is the control The function, ă2 and υ is the first and second parameters of GMV, G (x) - the normalized amplitude of the falling gravitational wave, p ∈ [4, 8] - the parameter of the anisotropy of the plasma. Despite external simplicity, the equation is significantly nonlinear and can hardly lend itself on research. In [2], 10