The study of the geometrically non-linear behavior of three-dimensional constructions currently related to the assessment of the stress-deformed state (VAT) and the stability of the elements of deformable structures arise in many areas of modern technology: aircraft industry, shipbuilding, mechanical engineering, industrial and civil construction. The modern level of development of the mechanics of the deformable solid body is such that the solution to the problem of analysis of VAT of three -dimensional structures, taking into account the determination of the zones of local stress concentration, is impossible without creating effective and economical methods of computers on computers. The accuracy of the theoretical study of the VAT of deformed structures depends on the calculated schemes and solution methods used. Particular attention has recently been paid to calculating complex structures in a geometrically nonlinear production. Among the many approaches used in the end-element analysis of structures, taking into account the geometric nonlinearity, it can be noted: the compilation of nonlinear equilibrium equations relative to the original metric and their solution using a particular iterative procedure; The method of sequential loading, in which the structure of the resolving equations does not fundamentally change; The step method in which the permissible equations at each stage of loading are recorded taking into account the surface metric deformed 24th state. Each of these approaches has its own advantages and disadvantages [1 - 3], and none of them can be considered universal. As a calculated algorithm, a method is selected, called the "globally increetal theory of Lagrange." The deformation process is represented in the form of a sequence of equilibrium states realized at the corresponding levels of loading. Physical relationships in the first approximation can be defined in the form of HUK's law both between the components of the tensor of deformations and the components of the tensor of the stress, and between their increments. At every step of loading, an iteration clarification of the solution is carried out. Disrelation of the region is carried out on the basis of an eight -naval three -dimensional isopetric final element with linear approximation of movements in all directions. As unknown in each node, three projection of the vector of displacements on the Cartesian axes of the global coordinate system are selected. The work considers a number of test and model tasks dedicated to geometrically nonlinear deformation and static equilibrium of three -dimensional elements of the reconstruction. L and T R A T R A 1. Vasizuv. Variation methods in the theory of elasticity and plasticity. - M.: Mir, 1987. - 542 p. 2. Odend. The final elements in the nonlinear mechanics of solid media. - M.: Mir, 1976. - 464 p. 3. Golovanova.I., Berezhnaya.V. Method of the final elements in the mechanics of deformed solid bodies. - Kazan: Publishing House Das, 2001. - 301 p. 25