The study of the flow of melts of the reverse glass in the crucible in experiments with meltwood melts. A significant deviation of the currents of these melts from the Poisaylevsky in the temperature range t = 390: 430 C was noticed. It was established that in the indicated range of the melting of these glasses behave as viscoplastic fluids. Based on the results of the experiments for each temperature regime, constants of a viscoplastic model of melts of tellurite glasses are determined. The results obtained were used in the construction of 189 generalized mathematical model of the flow of glasses of the TEO2-WO3 system. The model allows you to explore the spatial currents of the melts, the currents with the boundaries of the media section, the currents with heat transfer through convection and thermal conductivity. The mathematical model is adapted to the ANSYS CFX computing hydrogasodynamics software complex. Using this complex, a detailed numerical study of the flow of melts in a double tiger was carried out, including the interaction of the core of the core and the shell in the lower part of the tile (see Fig.). It is shown that the flow of melts are extremely sensitive to temperature disturbances, including in the local areas of the tile. Mathematical modeling determines the location of these areas. Specific examples show the possibility of using the results of mathematical modeling for physical diagnosis of a number of factors leading to a decrease in the quality of the received fibers. 190 D.V.Shmykov Kazan State University, dmitryshm@mail.ru Determination of heterogeneity in flat waves by neural networks Fig. A waveguide with a metal screen has a flat waveguide, which is a dielectric with metal walls X = 0 and X = H (see Fig.). The environment is supposed to be homogeneous and isotropic. In the waveguide there is heterogeneity in the form of a flat perfect screen, set by three numbers (α, β, d). The task of finding such heterogeneity is set in some part of the waveguide 0 <d <d <d <d, for the solution of which the neural network is used. Signals are generated → A = (→ A 1, → A 2,.), Emitting a certain source. Corresponding reflected signal 191