One way to increase the upper boundary of the range of the angles of the attack of the unsteady flow of the wing profile under the reverse edge of the aerohydrodynamics (OKZA) is understood the task of constructing the wing profile contour at the distribution of speed or pressure and subsequent calculation of the course of the course. The essence of the method of solving the problem is to build a conformal display of the appearance of a single circle in the area of ​​the auxiliary variable to the appearance of the desired profile according to the boundary conditions specified on the profile circuit (see [1]). Such a task is incorrect in Adamar. This means that the solution in the given class of the contours of wing profiles, and, namely, closed and streamlined at a given speed of the run -up flow, does not always exist. Often, the wing profiles built as a result of the OKZA solution are streamlined with the separation of the flow, and therefore the development of methods for constructing non -streamlined profiles is an urgent task. To date, several such methods are known, based on multiple solutions to the OKZA or on the task of certain initial data. In this work, a method of modification of wing profiles is presented, expanding the upper boundary of the range of the angles of attack of non -flowing flow and based on the decision of the OKZA. The essence of the method is to build a new distribution of speed, which is minimally different from the initial 72nd speed distribution, satisfies all conditions for solving the task and the condition of the stiffness of the flow, expressed through the auxiliary variable and withdrawn on the basis of the criterion of the uncinforced of Kochin - Loytsian. At the same time, OKZA is solved only once. The minimization task is reduced to the task of finding a saddle point of auxiliary functionality (see, e.g., [2]). The method of solving the problem is implemented in the form of a program. A series of calculations was held. The results are analyzed, conclusions are drawn. L and T R A T R A 1. Elizarova.M., Ilyinsky.B., Potasheva.V. The reverse regional tasks of aerohydrodynamics - M.: Nauka, 1994. - 440 p. 2. Elizarova.M., Ilyukhina.E., Lapina. The numerical reinforcement of some variations of the reverse marginal tasks of aerohydrodynamics // Izv. universities. Aviation equipment. -2005.-No. 1.-S. 28-33. P.E. Kashargin Kazan State University, pkashhargin@mail.ru about sustainability of mole -free mole in physical literature is called topological pens connecting remote areas of spaces, or “bridges” connecting various universes. To date, static mole -holes are quite well -studied. Mole burr with geometry depending on time, and rotating Croces 73 were less studied