The stability of mole -free mole -molen holes in the physical literature is called topological pens connecting the remote areas of spaces, or “bridges” connecting various universes. To date, static mole -holes are quite well -studied. Mole burrs with geometry, depending on time, and rotating Croces 73, are less studied. The purpose of our work is to study the stability of rotating mole Nice. This is a difficult task, so we will consider the model of a mole-hole obtained from spaces-time of black holes. This technique was used earlier for the analysis of the stability of a spherically symmetrical mole hole [1]. In the case of a spherical symmetry, the method is as follows. Consider two identical spaces-time of the Schwarzshild [2] DS2 =-(1–2M/R) DT2 + DR 2-2M/R + R 2 [Dθ2 + Sin2 θDφ2], where the parameter M is asymptotic mass, i.e.. The mass that an infinitely remote observer sees. In each of the spaces-time, we delete the four-dimensional region ω1.2 = {r1.2 6 a | A> 2M} and identify the received sets along the border ∂ω1.2. The space-time space obtained as a result of this procedure contains two asymptotically flat areas connected by a crop hole. The neck of the skeletal hole is the surface ∂ω. The tensor of energy-pulse has a great value from zero only on the neck R = A. To analyze the dynamics of a mole in [1] the parameter A is supposed to depend on time A (t). In this case, Einstein's equations take the form ȧ2 - 2m a - (2πσA) 2 = −1, σ̇ = −2 (σ - υ) ȧ A, where σ and ϑ is the surface density of energy and surface tension on the neck R = A (t ) respectively. Analysis of Einstein’s equations and stability requirements lead to a limitation of an asymptotic mass of mole -hole m <0. In the case of a positive asymptotic mass, the radius of the neck of the mole burns either turns to zero for a 74 -unit period of time, or increases unlimitedly, and, therefore, the decision under M > 0 is unstable. This work is devoted to the construction and study of a model of a rotating mole hole. L and T R A T R A 1. Visser M. Lorentzian Wormholes: from einstein to hawking. - Washington: Washington University, 1995. 2. Landau L.D., Lifshits E.M. Field theory. -M.: Science, 1973. R.A. Kayumov, I. Z. Mukhamedova, V.V. Khammatova Kazan State Architectural and Construction University, Muhamedova78@mail.ru Development of a model of deformation of tissue composite materials in the stream of reduced pressure plasma, taking into account, taking into account. Physical non -linearity modification of textile materials in the stream of high -frequency plasma of reduced pressure can improve the operational properties of tissues and tissue composite materials (TCM). The creation of mathematical models for deforming tissue composites modified in the stream of high-frequency plasma of reduced pressure allows, firstly, to significantly reduce the number of experiments in the analysis of the formality of the material; secondly, it allows Model 75