The study of the intense-deformed and marginal state of the soil interacting with the concrete plate partially located in it presents the methodology and the results of calculating the concrete slab, partially located in the ground, taking into account their joint deformation and the possibility of achieving the limit state. The calculated plate and the adjacent soil can be represented as a three -dimensional array, which has specific properties. It is known that soils are physically non -linear environments and obey the law of Hook in a small range of exerted loads. There are numerous mathematical models that allow us to describe the deformation process, which differ in the complexity of the resolving equations. This work uses a model similar to a model of an ideal-plastic body. In accordance with it, it is assumed that the law of Hook is fair to the limiting state, and after its achievement, the medium begins to be deformed without increasing the ela 22 of the load taken, which leads to the redistribution of stresses throughout the entire volume. The conditions for achieving the limit state are accepted in the form of Mizes - Botkin. The mechanism of interaction between a concrete slab and a ground array is modeled by a contact layer, the deformation of which can change in a fairly wide range depending on the conditions of exposure. To solve the physically nonlinear problem, an iterative method is used, which is a combination of the initial stress method and the method of additional information. To implement the mathematical model of the interaction of a concrete slab and a soil base, the so-called contact element is determined within the framework of the realized end-element methodology. The developed technique and the created software allow you to calculate the wide class of foundations and building structures from concrete, taking into account their interaction with a deformable soil base in a physically nonlinear production. The work was carried out with partial financial support of Grants of the RFFI 08-01-00546 and 08-07-00183. L and T R A T R A 1. Zaretsky. Lectures on modern soil mechanics. -Rostov-on-Don: Publishing House. University, 1989.-607 p. 2. Golovanova.I., Berezhnaya.V. Method of the final elements in the mechanics of deformed solid bodies. - Kazan.: Das, 2001. - 301 p. 23