Contact interaction of round plates with hard stamps as you know, setting contact tasks for thin -walled structures based on the hypotheses of Kirchhof - Laava, leads to solving mathematically incorrect problems. Counting of the transverse shift allows you to eliminate part of the emerging physical contradictions. Accounting for the compressibility of normal to the middle surface allows you to obtain contact stresses that differ little from the stresses calculated by the exact equations of the theory of elasticity. For contact tasks that boils to the integral equations of Fredgolm of the second kind, a methodology for their numerical solution has been developed. The contact area is covered with a net of topological rectangles. Integration in each of them is carried out using the quiss quadrature formula. The problem of determining the values ​​of contact pressure in the nodes of the mesh is reduced to solving the system of linear algebraic equations. This technique is applied to solve the problems of the distribution of contact stresses σ (r, ∗) under a stamp interacting with a round plate lying on an elastic vincler base with one bed coefficient. Cases of a round and rectangular stamp were considered. In the assumption of non -disclosure contact, the task is reduced to the solution in the known area of ​​contact ω of the integral equation 46 k0 (r, ng) + ∫∫ ω g (r, onic, ctor, η) σ (ă, η) dω = γ, (1) The core of which is located as a solution to the problem of the deflection of the plate under the influence of a single force under the appropriate boundary conditions. This solution can be quite simply presented in the form of a row of Fourier in the district coordinate, the coefficients of the row are expressed through the functions of Kelvin and depend on the current radius and radius vector of the load point of application. For a numerical solution of equation (1), a transition from the coordinate system associated with the plate is carried out to the coordinate system associated with the stamp. In order to accelerate the process of calculating the function of Kelvin, taking into account the transition to another coordinate system, are calculated in advance in all nodes of the quadrature mesh, the results are preserved on the hard drive. In the main program, these functions initially appear only formally as some abstract functions. When the moment of compilation of SLAU comes, the values ​​of all the necessary functions are loaded from pre -prepared files. Systematic calculations were carried out, the distribution of contact voltages was studied depending on the relative size of the stamp, the eccentricity of the stamp position, on the boundary conditions on the circuit circuit: free edge, seal, articulated fixing. 47