Development of a model of deforming tissue composite materials in the stream of plasma of reduced pressure, taking into account physical non -linearity, modification of textile materials in the stream of high -frequency plasma of reduced pressure can improve the operational properties of tissues and tissue composite materials (TKM). The creation of mathematical models for deforming tissue composites modified in the stream of high-frequency plasma of reduced pressure allows, firstly, to significantly reduce the number of experiments in the analysis of the formality of the material; Secondly, it allows you to model 75 experiments and forms of deformation, which are difficult or impossible to carry out through field tests. The problem of experimental studies of the process of deforming and destroying samples from tissue composites during separate and joint effects of cold plasma and power factors, developing mathematical models of behavior of these materials, as well as methods of processing experimental data that allow you to look for the studied mechanical characteristics. A model of non-linearly and minute deformation of TKM was developed under the action of loads and exposure to high-frequency plasma. When choosing a structure of determining ratios for TCM, known experimental facts are used. Determining ratios are accepted in the form of a nonlinear theory of elasticity. In this case, the ratios are taken in the form of a degree function from deformation. The end-elemental model of deformation of tissue materials was created, taking into account the physical nonlinearity of the material, and the inability of the fabric to perceive the compressive load. The solution of test problems showed the performance of the methodology for determining the tense-deformed state of TCM, taking into account the physical nonlinearity and its good consistency with mechanical ideas about the deformation of TCM. A series of experimental data of control samples of tissues and samples treated with a stream of plasma of the Uch-discharge of reduced pressure was investigated. The results of the experiments showed that small doses of cold plasma for fibrous materials acting within 180 seconds lead to an improvement in their deformative properties, further 76 irradiation leads to the destruction of the material. Methods of determining the physical and mechanical characteristics of TKM methods have been developed. The data of tests of structures with the measurement of external influences, as well as mathematical models of material behavior and structures, are considered unknown. The direct task of calculating structures is considered, the results of the numerical calculation are compared with experimental data and mechanical characteristics are selected so that they are close. Thus, the task of minimizing the functionality - quadratic unanimity is formulated - between calculated and experimental data. In our case, stiff characteristics are considered unknown. To find them, experimental data from natural fabrics treated with a stream of cold plasma are used. The developed numerical identification methods and software products allow minimizing the costs of conducting experiments to determine the physical and mechanical characteristics of materials, to solve the problem of their definition in cases where the characteristics of materials cannot be obtained or difficult to obtain by traditional methods, to create databases for TKM. On the basis of the developed models, numerical experiments were conducted, with the help of which the patterns of TKM behavior were studied depending on the geometric and physicomechanical parameters of materials. The work was carried out with financial support from the RFFI (projects 08-01-00628, 06-08-01170) 77