The spreading of a drop along the interposed surface in the work solves a two -dimensional problem of spreading a liquid drop along the border of two non -laughing liquids. On the flat interference border of two non -funeous liquids with densities ρt and ρb (upper and lower respectively) a cylindrical drop of the third liquid ρd is placed (Fig. 1). The density (ρt <ρd <ρb) varies so that the drop does not pop up, but also does not sink. Further, a drop under the action of the power of buoyancy and hydrodynamic forces spreads along the interference border. Numeric calculations were carried out on the basis of the FTM [1] method, [2], originally formulated for the case of two -phase boundaries [3] and modified for calculating currents with contact points of several interfacial boundaries. The system is considered as a single continuous environment with explosive values ​​of physical parameters, and interfacial interaction is taken into account in the Navier - Stake equations up to 41 with a full integral on the interfactions: ∂u ∂t + (u ∇) u = 1 ρ (∇P + f. +∇ · µ (∇u +∇tu) +∫ σκ′nively (x - x ′) ds ′), where u, p is the speed and pressure of the liquid, f - volumetric forces, κ ′ and σ - curvature and curvature and curvature The surface tension coefficient of the interference surface. Calculations were carried out in a wide range of minton numbers (M = Gµ4L ∆ρ ρ2L σ 3) and an ete (e = g∆ρd2 σ); 10-5 <m <1, 8 <e <80. To describe the nature of the movement and deformation of the drop, the dependence of the horizontal size of the drop from time was studied. Pictures of evolution of a drop in time were obtained. A high -quality classification of surfacing and spreading of a drop along a liquid border was carried out. Rice. 1. M = 0.03, E = 20, T = 0; 0.875; 1.675 The number E mainly determines the final equilibrium shape of the drop. So, with an increase in the number of eths, the drop is more flattened. The number of Morton, on the contrary, makes qualitative changes to the dynamics of spreading drops. So, if, with the numbers M ∼ 1, the graph of the dependence of the position of the drop of the drop from time to time has the appearance of the fading exhibitors, then as decreased M, fading vibrations appear on it and their initial amplitude grows. 42 Varying of the density of the drops with fixed ρt and ρb leads in the occurrence of waves on the border between the upper and lower liquid (Fig. 1). As the value of the density of the drop to the density of the upper fluid approaches, in addition to the spreading phase, the swimming phase preceding spreading becomes more noticeable. L and T R A TRYGGGVASON G., Bunner B., Esmaeeli A. A Front-Tracking Method for the Computations of Multiphaase Flow // J. Comput. Phys. 2001. - V. 169. - P. 708–759. 2. Puckkett E.G., Almgren A.S., Bell J.B., Marcus D.L., Rider W.G. A High-Order Projection Method for Tracking Fluid Interface in Variable Density Incompressible Flows // J. Comput. Phys. - 1997. - V. 130. - P. 269–282. 3. Gusarov D.V., Chernyshev I.V. Local hydrodynamic fields of the pop -up systems in the parabolic stream // Vestnik Volga. Ser. 1. Mathematics. Physics. - 2006. - Issue. 10. - S. 75–81. Din Chung Hoa Kazan State University, dinhtruunghoa@yahoo.com characterize traces with suspended inequalities denot through Mn algebra of all matrices of the nth order above the field C, M+N, M H N are the families of positive and Hermite matrices, respectively. For a, b ∈ MHN, we write A 6 b, if 43