The study of the interaction of deformed structures with soils The purpose of this work is to model the process of interaction between dry and water -saturated soil with underground deformable structures. Consider the quasi -vulgarfaction soil in which the gas is either completely dissolved in the liquid, or is partially in the bubbles moving at the speed of the filtering liquid. To the first phase, we attribute the so -called “skeleton” of the soil, which is understood as a set of mineral particles and the medium, which makes the direct connection of structural elements. The second phase will be considered a free, so -called, eternal fluid (not involved in the formation of connections between particles of the soil). Each of the phases is considered as a homogeneous environment, obeying certain laws of deformation. Consider the case of quasistatic deformation when inertial terms can be neglected. The sampling of the estimated area is carried out on the basis of a three -dimensional eight -eight -eater of the final element, as nodal unknown of which the decartial projections of the vector of the skeleton of the soil and the pore pressure are selected. In this paper, the case of the pipeline for strength is calculated. To reduce the impact on the strength and stability of the pipeline (when it is carried out under the railway fabric) of the passing railway trains, 26 pipe on the supports is partially placed in the so -called case (a steel pipe of a larger diameter). In this case, the main load from the weight of the above soil and the weight of the passing railway composition (as well as from the weight of the pipeline itself) falls on it. Calculation for the strength of the entire case, and its length can be many hundreds of meters, seems impractical. It is necessary to calculate for the most loaded part of the pipeline, namely, in the place where the railway tracks are located above it. In addition, a case with a pipeline located inside it on the supports is a periodic structure, therefore it seems possible to select only part of the structure as a calculated area, and to realize the conditions of frequency at the edges. The developed technique and the created software allow you to calculate the wide class of construction structures, taking into account their interaction with dry and water -saturated soils. The work was carried out with partial financial support of Grants of the RFFI 08-01-00546 and 08-07-00183. L and T R A T R A 1. Zaretsky. Lectures on modern soil mechanics. -Rostov-on-Don: Publishing House. University, 1989.-607 p. 2. Berezhnaya.v.V., Golovanova. I., Paimushin.N., Sidorovi.N., Klentievg.A. research of the tense and marginal state of dry and water-saturated soils // Mathematical modeling in the mechanics of continuous environments. Methods of boundary and final elements. Tr. XIX member. Conf. -St. Petersburg: 2001.-T. 2.-P. 82-86. 3. Golovanova.I., Berezhnaya.V. Method of the final element27 TOV in the mechanics of deformed solid bodies. - Kazan: Publishing House Das, 2001. - 301 p. D.S. Biserov Kazan State University, Denisbiserov@mail.ru Continuing dependence of the attorrator on the system of itathered functions in the work considered one of the most remarkable and deep achievements in the construction of fractals - the system of iteled functions. The mathematical aspects of the method were developed by John Hatchinson [3], and the method itself became widely known thanks to Michael Barnley [1] and others [2, 5]. Let the set m of compression T1, ..., TM in the space RN with the corresponding compression coefficients S1, ..., SM. These m display are used to obtain one compact compact compact compact space with a Hausdorf metric (k, dh), called Hatchinson's transformation, as follows: t (e) = t1 (e) ∪ ... ∪ tm (e (e) ), where E is some non -empty compact from K. This compression is called and is called a system of iterized functions (SIF). The motionless point of the Khatchinson display is called the CEF attorney. On many systems of iterized functions, we introduce the Buzeman metric [6]. In a more general form, on many compression of the metric space m, the metric of Buzeman δp, where P is 28