The contact task of bending the plate on the elastic base of the Winkler in this paper considers the tasks of determining the stress-deformable state of the plates, the effort or movement to which are attached by means of a glued hard stamp. The contact stresses of the interaction of the stamp and the plate will be considered normal, neglecting the tangent clutch. 30 Consider the task at given movements. Although in some way (it doesn’t matter, under the influence of what loads), movements are given a hard flat stamp, as a result of which it takes a position described by a linear function F (X, Y) = α + γXX + γYY. If the beginning of the coordinates is taken in the center of the stamp, then α will be the sediment of the stamp, and γx and γy with tangens of the corner of the stamp rotation relative to this center in the direction of the corresponding axes. The stamp acts on the plate through the desired normal contact voltages in the area of ​​S, which are denoted by σ (χ). Imagine the deflection of the plate in the integral form according to the method of compensating loads. The plate is deformed under the action of the contact voltage σ (χ), which compensates for the load P (ζ) and moments m (ζ). Then the deflection is recorded in the form of W (t) = ∫ s σ (χ) g (t, χ) ds (χ) + ∫ γ p (ζ) g (t, ζ) dγ (ζ) - - ∫ γ m (ζ ζ ζ ζ ζ ζ ζ ζ ζ ζ ζ ζ ζ ζ ζ ζ ) ∂g (t, ζ) ∂n (ζ) dγ (ζ), t ∈ ω, where g (t, ζ) = - l 2 2πd Kei (r l), l = 4 √ d/kz, kz - coefficient Winler's base beds. In the resulting representation of the deflection of the plate, the three submarine functions σ (χ), p (ζ) and m (ζ) are unknown. To determine them, we use two boundary conditions for fixing the plate and the condition of contact. The condition of contact is placed by movement, based on the fact that in the area of ​​contact, the side of the plate on which the hard stamp is fixed, 31 takes the given shape. The contact condition has the type of −kσ (t) + w (t) = α + γxx + γyy, t ∈ S. The term of contact is made in the condition of the contact of the contact surface of the plate due to the compression that occurs from the action of the contact stresses. By substituting the expression of the deflection of the plate in the boundary conditions (directing T to the border d) and in the condition of contact, we get a system of permitting integrated equations of the method of compensating loads. So, in the case of hard pinching of the edge of the plate, we have: ∫ s σ (χ) g (t, χ) ds (χ) + ∫ γ p (ζ) g (t, ζ) dγ (ζ) - ∫ γ m (ζ ζ ζ ζ ζ ζ ζ ζ ζ ζ ζ ζ ζ ζ ζ ζ ζ ζ ζ ζ ζ ) ∂g (t, ζ) ∂ ~ n (ζ) dγ (ζ) = 0, t ∈ γ; ∫ s σ (χ) ∂g (t, χ) ∂ ~ n (t) ds (χ) + ∫ γ p (ζ) ∂g (t, ζ) ∂ ~ n (t) dγ (ζ) - ∫ ∫ ∫ ∫ ∫ ∫ ∫ ∫ Γ m (ζ) ∂2g (t, ζ) ∂ ~ n (ζ) ∂ ~ n (t) dγ (ζ) = 0, t ∈ γ; kσ (t) + ∫ s σ (χ) g (t, χ) ds (χ) + ∫ γ p (ζ) g (t, ζ) dγ (ζ) - ∫ γ m (ζ) ∂g (t , ζ) ∂ ~ n (ζ) dγ (ζ) = α + γxx + γyy, t ∈ S. To solve this system of integral equations, an indirect method of boundary elements (NMGE) was used. The contour of the plate was divided into linear elements and arcs of 32 circles, the area under the stamp - on the siz. Within the boundary of the boundary element and the same, unknown compensatory loads and contact stresses are constant. Collocation points are placed in the nodes of the boundary elements and in the centers of the severity of the water. To work out the NMGE methodology, a number of test problems were solved. M.Yu. Garnyshev Kazan State University mgarnysh@rambler.ru to interpret the abnormal curves of the pressure of complicated deposits considered the task of interpreting the pressure restoration curves (CVDs) observed in some wells of the Crane raising of the Bashkir tier of the Cheremokhovsky field. They are characterized by an extremely slow rate of pressure restoration and a 4P (t) linear dependence close to a short time after stopping the well. The noted features of the CVD make it impossible to interpret experimental curves based on classic hydrodynamic models that predict a rapid pace and logarithmic nature of pressure restoration. In this work, a mathematical model explains the abnormal behavior of the 4p (t) function. It is assumed that in addition to hydrodynamically interconnected remote controls, the field contains a number of isolated 33