The mathematical support of the endoprosthetics of the hip joint of the disease of the musculoskeletal system creates adverse conditions of human life, limit its functional capabilities and can lead to disability. One of these diseases is the lesions of bone components and soft tissue formations of the hip joint (TBS). The far -reaching stages of TBS lesions lead to the need for its prosthetics by installing the implant. Planning and control of this type of treatment has not yet been little developed. This problem is one of the urgent tasks of domestic medicine. In the preoperative period, the determination of the size of the implant and the planning of surgery are carried out according to radiographs performed in two projections. The geometric indicators of the hip joint, the state of bone tissue in the area of ​​attachment of the implant, are determined, taking into account the projection increase, which sometimes requires intraoperative correlation in case of non -relayation of the received data. When preparing the patient for endoprosthetics, the following radiometric indicators are taken into account: the vertical size of the input to the acetabulum, the depth of the acetabulum, the angle of vertical inclination of the swivel (angle of the scarves), the shoulder of the femoral, the height of the head, the assessment of the neck-dyaphysar angle, the determination of the narrowing index of the 88 female canal . The purpose of this work is to develop the program for constructing three -dimensional images using spiral computed tomography of the hip joints and creating a database (library) of three -dimensional images of existing endoprostheses, taking into account their size. The proposed three -dimensional TBS model is created on the basis of a radiograph of a particular patient, which allows you to take into account the individual qualities of the damaged TBS. With the help of this program, it becomes possible to accurately determine the size, the type of endoprosthesis, taking into account its individual geometry and the assessment of bone tissue in the field of upcoming surgical intervention. This program makes it possible to study the stress-deformed state of the pelvis both before and after the installation of the implant, which allows us to evaluate durability for an individual biomechanical situation. The strength problem is solved by the method of final elements (MKE) due to irregular geometry of TBS and makes it possible to most fully take into account the features of the real object of research. The specificity of the structure of bone tissue complicates the CE model of TBS, since the heterogeneity of the bone entails not only various mechanical characteristics, but also the use of various KE, which complicates the coherence of the model. The implementation of MKE at this stage was carried out on the basis of the ANSYS package. 89