Software procedures for modeling nonlinear three -dimensional movements in the computer mathematics system in the work considered the tasks of computer modeling of non -linear three -dimensional mechanical systems by means of computed Maple computer mathematics. Such mechanical systems are most often described by a system of non -linear differential equations of the second order of the species [1]: mr̈ = f (r, ṙ) + f0 (r, t), (1) where r = (x1 (t), x2 (t) , x3 (t))-the radius vector of the material point, the point indicates differentiation by the temporary variable t, f-the vector of internal forces, F0-the vector of force (external) forces. In the absence of the latter, the system (1) represents an autonomous system of differential equations. Examples of non -linear mechanical movements of the type (1) are: the movement of a non -volumetial loaded particle in crossed electromagnetic fields, the movement of a massive particle in the gravitational field, taking into account the friction forces, quadratic in terms of the speed of the coriolis, etc. In the relativistic mechanics of the movement equation are always non -linear Due to the dependence of the inert mass on the speed: dpi ds = f i (xk, pk) + f i0 (x k), (2) 3 where s is the natural parameter. At the same time, the ratio of the standardization of the pulse (p, p) = −p2 + (p4) 2 = m2c2 and the connection of the pulse with 4-stroke Pi = MCDXI/DS always lead to nonlinear dynamic equations. In addition, in some cases, the equations of relativistic dynamics become differential equations of a higher order. These, for example, are the equations of the movement of the relativistic charge in the electromagnetic fields, taking into account the brake radiation [2]. Thus, in almost important cases for science and techniques, mechanical systems are substantially nonlinear, so there is usually no comprehensive study of such systems in university courses. Therefore, an important problem is the creation of multi -parametric computer models of such systems, on the basis of which you can demonstrate their essential features. Such a problem, in principle, can be solved by software tools for computer mathematics systems. To solve it, it is necessary to create specialized user libraries of software multi -parametric procedures that allow you to build graphic and animated models of the studied systems. From a mathematical point of view, it is necessary to create satisfactory software procedures for the numerical solution of such systems. The work provides a number of examples of creating software procedures that make it possible to carry out numerical modeling and visualization of its results. Such examples are the movement of a massive body in the severity field taking into account friction, 4 motion of relativistic charge, taking into account magneto -). L and T R A T R A 1. Landau L.D., Lifshitz E.M. Mechanics. - M: Science, 1965. 2. Landau L.D., Lifshitz E.M. Field theory. -M: Science, 1973. A.I. Abdullin Institute of Mechanics and Mechanics of the Execution Academy of Sciences of the Russian Academy of Sciences, ADEL.ABDULLIN@gmail.com Solving the reverse problem of three-dimensional filtration in a deformable cracked-pore environment in this work based on regulatory methods solved the problem of evaluating the filtration parameters of a crack The layer based on the results of hydrodynamic studies of horizontal wells, taking into account the dependence of the permeability of crack cracks. The process of three-dimensional filtration to a horizontal well in a fissitive-porist layer is described by a system of non-linear differential equations: β ∗P1 ∂t = ∇ [k (p1) µ ∇p1] + α µ (p2-p1), (1) β ∗ 2 ∂p2 ∂t = −α µ (p2 - p1), (x, y, z) ∈ V, 0 <t <t, with initial and boundary conditions: p1 (x, y, z, t0) = p2 (x , y, z, t0) = f (x, y, z), 5