The canonical almost geodetic transformations of the second type of almost Hermite varieties with a familiar metric space of an affinity is called smooth diversity, in the main stratification of the reaches of which the connectivity is fixed [1]. Consider two spaces of affinity without twisting: an and an. Diffherorphism an on an almost geodetic reflection [2], if as a result of this reflection, each geodetic line of space An passes into almost geodetic spaces of an. Almost geodetic displays of the second type of affinity spaces π2: an → an are geometrically characterized by the fact that each geodetic line AS with the field of the tangent vector λH passes into almost geodetic an, for which the field of two -dimensional planes E2 at each point is a linear membrane of the λH and JHα vectors and JHα (x) λ α. Let M2N - almost Hermitovo diversity with a almost Hermite structure (j, g) set on it, where J is an almost comprehensive structure on m. Consider the almost geodesical transformation of the second type ∗ to M, which retains structural endomorphism j. Denote g = ∗ ∗ (G). The structure (J, G) is also an almost ermit structure on m. The almost geodetic display of the second type is called canonical [2] if the affinite deformation tensor from Rome 48 of the new connectedness ∇ metric g to riman coherence Where σ is a certain co -chamber. Then the covariant derivative of structural endomorphism j relative to coherence ∇ has the form ∇x (j) y = ∇x (j) y + σ (jy) JX + σ (y) x. We denote through C, B, respectively, the structural and virtual tensors of the AH structure (J, G), and through C, B are structural and virtual tensors of the AH structure (J, G). Theorem 1. The structural tensor does not change during the canonical almost geodetic transformations of the second type, and the virtual changes according to the following law: b (x, y) = b (x, y) + σ (y) jx - σ (jy) x. If G and G are two pseudoriman structures on M, then, due to the symmetry of the tensor G, there is self -combined endomorphism f, such that G (X, Y) = G (X, FY) Let G - Rimanova structure. Then the TP (M) allows the basis consisting of its own vectors of endomorphism f, that is, from vectors Y, such as FY = λY, λ ∈ R Using the properties of a virtual tensor, we get σ (y) G (JX, Y) - σ (jy) g (x, y) = 0. Due to the uninterruption of the metric g σ (y) jx - σ (jy) x = 0. 49 from the linear independence of vectors X and JX, it follows that σ (y) = 0. Since F admits a basis consisting of its own vectors of this endomorphism, then σ = 0. Thus, we get the following result. Theorem 2. Almost Hermitovo diversity with familiar metric does not allow non -trivial canonical almost geodetic transformations of the second type. L and T R A T R A 1. Kirichenkov.f. Differential-geometric structures on the varieties. - M.: MPGU, 2003 .-- 495 p. 2. Sinyukovn.S. Geodetic display of Riman spaces. - M.: Nauka, 1979. - 255 p. V.I. Zhegalov, O.A. Tikhonov Kazan State University, Oatihonova@rambler.ru cascading integration in three -dimensional space The result described below is considered as a continuation of their research from [1] - [3], dedicated to the study of the possibilities of solving in quadrators equations with senior private derivatives. This message proposes a method for spreading the method of cascading integration of Laplace [4, §3.2] from the case of two independent variables to the spatial equation of the Bianchi ∑ IK = 0.1 k = 1.3 A (I1i2i) (x) ∂i1+i2+i3 ∂ ∂ ∂ ∂ ∂ ∂ ∂ ∂ ∂ x1i1∂x2i2∂x3i3 u (x) = f, (1) 50