The mathematical modeling of the aerodynamics of the lifting complex of the air cushion (SVP) of the Nizhny Novgorod company Aero Master is designed and built unique in terms of controllability and seaworthiness of amphibian SVP A-32. The ship was originally designed for operation in the Far North and high latitudes. The design displacement of the SVP of this series is 16 tons. At the same time, the speed on water in winds and waves of 1 - 2 points is 60 - 70 km/h. An increase in the autonomy of SVP swimming is possible by increasing the container of fuel tanks by 2 tons. In this case, the speed drops to 45 - 50 km/h. In order to increase the speed within the framework of the existing layout, the geometry of the injection tract, the speed of the wheels of centrifugal fans, the internal and external diameters of their rim, the possibilities of increasing the consumption-port characteristics of the fans were carried out. To conduct these studies, a methodology has been developed for solving the problem of calculating the discharge tract, taking into account the air intake from the surrounding atmosphere due to rotation of the fan wheel, the air output from the tract to the air pillow and, then, to the surrounding atmosphere. The tasks in such a formulation by the methods of mathematical modeling were not previously solved; Similar tasks were studied by the methods of physical model experiment. When solving the problem, the final volume method was used. The implementation of the method was carried out in the ANSYSCFX hydrogasodynamics package. During computational experiments, pressure losses in the air tract are determined. Based on the results of the studies, changes in the geometry of the duct were made, guide shoulder blades and air intakes were developed, allowing to raise the pressure in the pillow in the fan mode required for this vessel by 25%. A study of the effect of changes in the profilov of the fan wheel blades on air flow and pressure in the air cushion was carried out. In the presence of new blades and an optimized tract, the pressure in the pillow increases by 40% compared to the original option. Numerical studies are confirmed by the results of a physical experiment on the measurement of the consumption-port characteristics of the old and new lifting complexes. The methodology of the experiment was developed using mathematical modeling. The decisions obtained are implemented on the head vessel of pr. A-32. Based on the results of the seafarer tests, an improvement in the controllability of the vessel is observed. The maximum speed reached 89 km/h. 71