The continuous dependence of the attorrator on the system of iterized functions in the work considers one of the most remarkable and deep achievements in the construction of fractals - the systems of iteled functions. The mathematical aspects of the method were developed by John Hatchinson [3], and the method itself became widely known thanks to Michael Barnley [1] and others [2, 5]. Let the set m of compression T1, ..., TM in the space RN with the corresponding compression coefficients S1, ..., SM. These m display are used to obtain one compact compact compact compact space with a Hausdorf metric (k, dh), called Hatchinson's transformation, as follows: t (e) = t1 (e) ∪ ... ∪ tm (e (e) ), where E is some non -empty compact from K. This compression is called and is called a system of iterized functions (SIF). The motionless point of the Khatchinson display is called the CEF attorney. On many systems of iterized functions, we introduce the Buzeman metric [6]. In a more general form, on the set of compressions of the metric space m, the metric of Buzeman Δp, where p is a certain point from M, is introduced as follows: δp (С, ψ) = sup xphor d (gment (x), ψ (x )) e - d (p, x). Thus, the question arises: whether the display is a continuous display comparing the system of itatic functions. Lemma. Let the sequence of the systems of the Izerized functions eed and one system of Izerized functions ffic are given, such that lus conveys to ∗ in the metric δp. Let XK and X are attrays, respectively ∗. If the condition is fulfilled: the coefficients of the compression of Hatchinson's display are limited on top with a positive number with a smaller one, then the XK converges X relative to the metric of Hausdorf. Consider the following scheme. Let the sequence of systems of itathered functions, each element of which consists of m compresses {onic1 ,. . . , workm}. The system of iterized functions is given, consisting of compression {∗1 ,. . . , ∗}. The appropriate displays of Hatchinson are determined. Theorem. Let for any i = 1, m, the convergence of the sequence ∗ to the element ffic in K → φ relative to the Buzeman metric, determined on compression in the space RN, is performed. Then: 1. T K → T with k → ∞, relative to the Buzeman metric, determined on compression in the space K; 2. XK → X at K → ° relative to the Hausdorf metric, where XK, X are the attractions T K, T. 29 l and t e r a t r a 1. Barnsley M. Fractals EryWhere. - Boston: Academic Press, 1988. 2. Falconer K.J. The Geometry of Fratal Sets. - Cambridge Univ. Press, 1985. 3. Hutchinson J.E. FRACTALS and SELF SIMILARITY // Indiana University Math. J.-1981.-V. 30.-No 5.-P. 713-747. 4. JACHYMSKI J. Continous Dependence of Attractors of itied Function Systems // J. Math. Analysis and Appl. -1996.-V. 198.-P. 221-226. 5. Mandelbrot B. FRACTALS: FORM, CHANCE, and DIMENSION. - San Francisco: Freeman, 1977. 6. Buzeman G. Geometry Geodetic. - M.: Fizatlit, 1962. 7. Kronover R. Fractals and Chaos in dynamic systems. - M.: Science, 2001. P. G. Velikanov, S. A. Malkin, N. I. Kukanov Kazan State University, pvelikanov@mail.ru Contact task of bending the plate on the elastic foundation of the Winkler in this work discusses the tasks of determining the tension- The deformable state of the plates, effort or movement to which are attached by means of a glued hard stamp. The contact stresses of the interaction of the stamp and the plate will be considered normal, neglecting the tangent clutch. thirty