The calculation of the characteristics of the aerosol sampler in a low and high -speed flows solved the task of aspirating the aerosol into a thin -walled tube oriented by the input hole to the 36 aerosol flower in the expanded range of the RA of the Wind and aspiration velocities. The air speed field in the approach of the potential course of the inconspicuous gas is located by the method of boundary elements, as part of the viscous flow model - the finite volume method in the Fluent package. Along with the aspiration coefficient, particle concentrations based on the method are calculated [1]. The equations of the movement of particles are supplemented by equations to determine the concentrations of particles along the trajectories. The parametric studies of the aspiration coefficient for very small (sedentary air) and large values ​​(high -speed flow) RA were carried out, when the aspiration coefficient is poorly described by the widely known experimental formula of Belyaev - Levin. With small RA, the effect of gravity becomes noticeable (Fig. 1). A comparison of calculations in approaches to the potential and viscous currents of the bearing environment is given. The spatial distributions of particles concentrations in the surroundings and inside the aspirating tube have been studied. With the intermediate numbers of Stox, a significant heterogeneity of the distribution of concentration in the surroundings and inside the sampler is observed. In general, the concentration of particles grows when approaching the sampler, but areas with a concentration, a lower concentration of particles in an unperturbed stream, appear inside the sampler. An assessment of the influence of a heterogeneous profile of particle concentrations on the aspiration coefficient is given. 37 0.0 0.2 0.4 0.6 0.8 1.0 0.0 0.2 0.4 0.6 0.8 1.0 R A ST = 0.1 ST = 10 ST = 1 FR = 10 A Fig. 1. The dependence of the aspiration coefficient A on RA excluding (continuous curves) and taking into account (barn curves) gravity (ST-the number of Stox, FR-the number of frud) Work is supported by the RFFIF (project 07-07-00183). L and T R A T R A 1. OSIPTSOVA.N. Modified Lagrangian Method for Calculating the Particle Concentration in Dusty-Gas Flows with Intersecting Particle Trajects // Proc. 3rd int. Conf. Multiphaase Flow, ICMF’98, Lyon, France. - 1998. - Paper 236. - 8 p. A. I. Golovanov, L. W. Sultanov Kazan State University, lsultano@ksu.ru Production and algorithm for studying the final elastoplastic deformations of the media in the work gives the production and algorithm for the study of finite elastic deformations. The first part of 38 is sacred to the kinematics of final deformations. The animated decomposition of the gradient tensor is used in the form of a work of the gradient of elastic and plastic deformations. With this decomposition, an intermediate state is introduced into the consideration that corresponds to the state when removing the load. For each state, appropriate measures of deformations are introduced, in particular, the right and left tensors of the Koshi - Green, the right and left tensors of Piola. The following are the tensors describing the kinematics of the environment: the spatial gradient of the speeds, its symmetrical part is the tensor of speed deformation and the oblique part - the rotation speed tensor. In accordance with the multiplier decomposition, analogues of the tensors of the spatial gradient gradient, deformation of speed and rotation speed for the elastic and plastic speeds of deformations are used. The second part describes the procedure for obtaining determining ratios. As the main tensor describing the tense state, the tensor of the true stresses of Koshi - Euler, which is determined in the current state, is accepted. The determining ratio was obtained from the second law of thermodynamics for the isothermal process recorded for the Kirchhof tensor in the initial configuration. As a result, we have linearized physical relationships in the form of the dependence of the speed of the true stresses of the cat - Euler on the stresses of the Kirchhof, the gradients of free energy and the left tensor of the piola of elastic deformations. When modeling plastic deformations, the theory of the course is used, where the criterion of the plastic current is the function of turnover. 39 A third of the work is devoted to integrating the equations of movement. The deformation process is represented in the form of a sequence of equilibrium states that are realized at a certain point in time (temporary layer). It is believed that at some point in time all the parameters of the process are known. The task is to find all the parameters of the process on the next time layer. As a basic equation, the power equation is accepted in the current state. After linarization and some transformations, a permitting system of linear equations was obtained, where the increment of movements in the current temporary layer is unknown. Having solved the resulting system of equations, we get the values ​​of increasing movements, with which you can determine the configuration in the next step. In the final part, the ratio is displayed for determining the stress-deformed subsequent state with the division into elastic and p