Differomorphisms of a three -dimensional sphere with non -trivial one -dimensional invariants to the study of such dipheeromorphisms leads to consideration of various types of attractions, which are one of the most popular sections of the theory of dynamic systems. Definition. Invariant set of N is called the attorrator if there is an vicinity U (n), such that 1. f (u (n)) ⊂ u (n); 2. ⋂ n> 0 fnu (n) = N. Among the attractions with a complex topological structure, hyperbolic attituses, the so -called strange attractors, are of greatest interest. Strange rides are often found in systems arising from applications of 65 dynamics. It is when studying the Sinoid Smeyel - Williams - one of the most striking representatives of this family, a hypothesis arises about the possibility of multidimensional generalization and continuation of the original display. Let us describe the class of examples proposed by the Smile in the 1960s, the so-called attorney SMILA-Williams or the solenoid. Consider the completeness M = S1 × D2, where D2 is a single circle in R2. We determine on it such coordinates (∗, x, y) that ∗ ∈ S1 and (x, y) ∈ D2, that is, x2 +y2 6 1. Using these coordinates, determine the display, which doubles the completeness, while 10 times by 10 times Reducing its thickness: f: m → m, f (∗, x, y) = (2 accord, 1 10 x + 1 2 cos accord, 1 10 y + 1 2 sin accord). This design can be represented as wrapping a rubber tape twice around the rod. However, the resulting transformation cannot be represented as continuous deformation in R3. The display f on the set M is determined correctly, that is, f (m) ⊂ m is injective. Considering the consistent display λ, inside the set M, you can choose a new set λ: = m ∩ f (m) ⋂ f2 (m) ∩. . . = ∩L] This set of λ is the Attor of Smayla - Williams or Sinoid. A lot of λ local Homeomomorpho Descartas to the work of the interval and Kantorov of the set; The global structure 66 is more complicated, it is a complicated solenoid. The Attor Smeyla - Williams is a hyperbolic and coherent set. The hypothesis of the possibility of multidimensional generalization and continuation of the initial display is confirmed and, indeed, it is possible to build a reflection, which is a continuation of the well -known Sinoid Smeyle - Williams in three -dimensional space. In the obtained diphteromorphism, there are quite a lot of non -trivial one -dimensional invariant sets. For example, the constructed display contains a three -dimensional “horseshoe”, which was first proposed by Smile in 1961. Similar behavior discovered in this example is often found in a wide class of dynamic systems. However, this applies mainly to the linear case of “horseshoes”. In our case, we are already dealing with a three -dimensional “hill”. E. I. Kalinin Kazan State University, kalininei@yandex.ru The numerical solution to the problem of the flow of bodies in the variables “current function - diminution function” is considered the task of streaming the system of bodies with a viscous laminated fluid flow. We describe the course of the system of equations of Navier - Stox in the variables “The function of the current ψ - vortex ω” ∂ω ∂t +· (~ v ω) = 1 re 4ω, (1) 67