The task of eliminating the separation of the border layer on the wing profile through the optimal location of the moving wall 79 in the present work is set and solved the task of eliminating the border layer (PS) on the wing profile streamlined at the specified angle of attack. As a mechanism, MA control of the separation was chosen by a moving wall, which is put on the surface of the wing. This device refers to the elements of active control of PS [1), [2), which requires energy supply for operation. To take into account these energy costs for the work of the moving wall, the approach described in the work (1), which consists in the calculation of the introduced equivalent coefficient of the scree of energy costs, was used. According to the paragraph of the PS and the coefficient of the SHU, the resistance of the wing profile friction was determined by the results of the AETC), the dynamic calculation of the PS, which was carried out by the number of solutions of the PS equations, approximated ends: 11 with differences in an implicit scheme on the adaptive grid. To solve the problem, it is necessary to find the size, the position of the IE of the moving wall and the speed of its movement, at which C, 5 tkaing becomes non -flowing and a minimum of D is achieved:! Left function CT = SCR + SHA. The task of optimization of PECT> F: A using the method of penal functions (3). A series of calculations for the wing profile NACA 0012 was carried out, flowing 80 R. a. Valits Moy with an angle of attack a = 14 °. The optimal senses of the desired parameters are given, conclusions are drawn about their impact on energy costs and the resistance of friction of the wing profile. The work was carried out with financial support for the FCP "Scientific and Scientific and Pedagogical Personnel of Innovation Russia" for 2009 - 2013 (state contract P1124). The author expresses gratitude to the scientific leader N. B. Ilyinsky and D.F. Abzalilov for valuable consultations and tips. Literature 1. ZHENP. Office of the OTR Flow. - M.: Mir, 1979. 552 p. 2. Gad -el-hakm. Flow Cooptrol: Passive, Active, APD Reactive Ftow Tapagetept. - Cambridge University Press, 2000. - 421 p. 3. Bazaaraam., Sheralih., Shettyc. Nonlipear ProgrammiPg: Theory and Algorithms. 3rd ed. - New Jersey: John \ Viley & Sons Inc., 2006. - 872 p.