Potential fields when deforming the material in the case of a diagonal tensor of deformations in the spherical coordinate system are considered: the medium, the puppy of which is the free energy in isothermal 11Pouecce actively1 · 0 of the ease of fingertips, 1 ~ is expelled with the elementary work of pancreas. I3 difference from the trace, g ~. The case is the case. I have a falling branch, which characterizes the raar -imprisonment of the material. Paul <: tugs that ten ~ deformation is diagonal and the first invariant of the tensor deforms is not positive. Then the volumetric module retains an extensive • 1enis for all one hundred/1, Yih L, EXCOMNITION. Further, for such an environment, the function is built with1-public: -energy. Free energy will be reached by the potential of stresses, after all, it is 1 adapting a potential field. The ratio F (8, d) = Copst sets the level of the level of this potential function. Here F 24 K. AT . Ber/\ Nicoa. BUT . F :. Struzhlnov function of free energy, () and g - NSRI and second invari of the tensor of deformations, respectively. Poknauyu that the entry into the consideration of the stage • 1 Neppy Mn. Awater Diva to that, • RTO at some moment the change in the potential field is occurred. A change in the potential field occurs precisely when the material is crossed by the borderline state of the inter -improving and rejoicing, • RTO corresponds to the highest that • 1 is a single curve T "'G, where T is the second invariant of the tensor of the tensor. Potential fields are built for an example cases when a unified curve of the task. In a piece of line-linear function and parabola. It is shown that in the nervous case at the stage of hardened1 lines} l function f 11redtanl} lute al-lips, while at the stage of removal lines of damage are hyperbols. If a single The curve is specified in the form of PA employees, then the lines of the level of free energy function also change their structure when the reference is rewarded to the removal stage. The work was completed according to the joint project of the RAS and RAS (project No. 12-C-1-1024).