Adaptation of the Multivate system of microorganisms in the soil polluted by oil products. The most environmentally friendly methods of soil cleaning from oil pollutants belong to the technology of biomediation, the basis of the bathroom on the use of hydrocarbons of ganisms (MO). A reliable definition of the optimal ssia of the Naria of Restorative measures, as well as the forecast of the MAC of the pollution headquarters should be based on the calculations within A. I. Lubyshev, K. A. Potashov 89 of the correct mathematical model of the process. Port models of liquid hydrocarbon (UV) pollutants in the soil as a whole have developed a port of a port of a port of water and all the basic chanters of transfer are known. The main difficulties arise when such models are closed with additional kinetically the ratios that describe the processes of the life of microorganisms. This work is devoted to the choice of the most adequate mathematical model to describe the life process of the MO in polluted soil and the dynamics of substrate concentrations. Unlike most of the known simplified models [4, 5], the case of the Multi -Asleous System of the Ministry of Defense is considered in the work, when each subsequent stage of the MO for its life is different uses the next level of the substrate that appears the product of the previous stage. On the basis of famous individual kinetic models and general ideas about the process, six different models have many link systems. Equipping models by coefficients was made of the condition of minimizing the inanimate of calculated and experimental data. For this, optimization Al Goritme was implemented, based on the use of the LEENBER GA GARKVARDT method. Due to the large number of LE fashion coefficients (from 7 to 18), to select the initial approximation of the pre-approximation of the original algorithm that allows 3-4 orders to reduce the number of variations of unknown coefficients of fashion, compared to traditional approaches according to the schemes of the Mon Te-Carlo and bee swarm. The best model is determined by the degree of coincidence with external data - the dynamics of respiration, concentration of 90 S. V. Macletsia Uv and General Carbon. It is shown that a fundamental improvement in the quality of the model can be achieved due to the additional variable control control control, and taking into account the movement of the number of Moscow Region does not lead to an improvement in the model. L and T R A T R A 1. JOSHUAA.E. Probability Bounds Analysis for nonlinear population Ecology Models. // Mathematical Biosciences. - 2015. - No. 267. - P. 106. 2. Aravindar.m. Optimal Control Analysis of the Dynamic Growth Behavior of Microorganisms. // Mathematical Biosciences. - 2014. - No. 25. - P. 105. 3. Gillf., Murray., Wright. Practical optimization. - M.: Mir, 1985 .-- 609 p. S.V. Makletsov Kazan (Volga) Federal University, Smaklets@kpfu.ru about the use of artificial neural networks for analyzing the visual analyzer, the work of the visual analyzer is studied by means of outbreak of visual caused potential (VILS), the schedule of the Matical graphics of which is shown in Fig. 1. Fig. 1. Substation schedule