The development of an elective course “Mathematical and computer modeling” is an important part of the educational process in preparing students of the natural-mathematical profile is the formation of skills in constructing and studying models of various processes. The introduction of the elements of mathematical and computer modeling in the educational process has a number of advantages, among them: • integration of mathematics with natural scientific disciplines (such as physics, chemistry, biology); • integration of mathematics with social and humanitarian disciplines (economics, sociology, etc.); • application of students' knowledge in the field of information technology in practice; • motivation of students to study the exact sciences; • Motivation of students to research activities. The work describes the elective course “Mathematical and computer modeling” created by the author. 154 E.S. Ulyanova’s elective course is intended for students of a naturally mathematical profile. A feature of the course is when constructing models of the apparatus of differential equations, the study of which usually goes beyond the school curriculum. The structure of the course provides for the following sections: 1) the introduction into the theory of ordinary differential equations 2) the construction of mathematical models using the AP Parat of differential equations. 3) the basics of creating dynamic visualization. 4) building visual computer models. As a tool for researching mathematical moles, as well as building computer models, it is proposed to use CAS GEOGEBRA. The choice of this tool is due to the simplicity and availability of the Geogebra system, the possibility of accurate decisions of the protozoa of the Ferential equations, and wide possibilities for diet visualization. Here is one of the tasks considered in the elective course. The task of Skydiver. Skydiver makes a protracted jump from a height of H0. At what critical height is it required to open the parachute so that the landing is without dangerous, if the resistance force proportional to the square of the speed of Skydiver and the area of ​​the parachute section? By building a computer model of Skydiver falling. L and T R A T R A 1. Chebotareva.V. The computer experiment with Geogebra - Kazan: Kazan University, 2015. - 61 p. OH. Fatykhov 155 2. Samarsa.A., Mikhailova.p. Mathematical fashion Litting: Ideas. Methods. Examples. // M.: Fizatlit, 2001. A. Kh. Fatykhov Kazan State Architectural and Construction University, vitoat@gmail.com Hilbert's homogeneous regional task with the final number of second-sided gap points for half-friring are the regional task of the Hilbert of the theory of analytical functions with an endless index and the regional condition on the material axis, the coefficients of the regional condition are continuous according to Helder everywhere, except for the final number of special points TK, K = 1, N, in which the argument of the function is coefficient G (t) = A (t) - ib (t), Moreover, A2 (t) + B2 (t) 6 = 0 everywhere on L, has breaks of the second kind (the steppe order with the show is less than one). Let d = {z: z = x+ iy, y> 0} - the upper half -plate of the integrated variable z, l is the material axis. Considering the regional task of Hilbert the theory of analytical functions with the regional condition on the material axis a (t) ℜφ (t) - b (t) ℑφ (t) = c (t), t ∈ L, t 6 = tk. Here, the coefficients of the regional condition are continuous according to the gel dera everywhere on the intervals (− least, t1), (tk, tk+1), k = 1, n - 1, (tn,+∞).