The use of artificial neural networks to analyze the visual analyzer studies the work of the visual analyzer by means of outbreak of visual caused potential (SASP), the schedule of which is shocked in Fig. 1. Fig. 1. The SILS of SILS S.V. Makletsov 91 Certain reactions of various areas of the brain on the floor on the floor of tea visual information may be the basis for nominating assumptions about its normal functioning, or the presence of certain deviations from the norm. To solve the problem of determining the qualitative paramet of the ditch of the visual analyzer, personal approaches and, in particular, models built on the basis of artificial neural networks (INS) can be used [1]. On the basis of the Scientific and Diagnostic Center at the Kazan State Medical University, experiments were conducted on the creation of artificial neural network fashion Lee type "perceptron" with the use of one of the most-diverse learning algorithm-the error algorithm. In the first experiment, a sample of 85 people, divided into 7 groups, was used as a training set. The first group (24 people) was conditionally assigned to the norm, and the rest included persons with certain deviations from the norm. The accuracy of the perceptron in the test sample (when providing new data) was not 50%, which does not allow using such a network in real conditions. In the course of the second experiment, the neural network was the wife of a training sample of the same volume, divided into only 3 groups. At the same time, the quality of the classification increased to 70%. As a result, ways to improve the quality of the INS were proposed. Firstly, since the neural network contains a pain number of relationships between neurons and, corresponded, a large number of customizable parameters, SU 92 E. Galkovo an increase in the sample for its training is required. Secondly, when creating an AS, it makes sense to replace the measured input indicators with the calculated values, depending on the medium-normal indicators. Thirdly, a neural network should be divided through functional blocks into several related networks, the work of which will analyze the corresponding stages of processing of visual information with the brain. This will reduce the number of relationships on the network and use the teaching samples of a smaller size when maintaining the statical level of quality classification of patients. In addition, this approach will allow to obtain a more accurate representation about the work of various departments of the visual analyzer. L and T R A T R A 1. YAHYUEVAG. Fundamentals of the theory of neural networks [Electronic resource] // National Open University "Intuit" URL: http://www.intuit.ru/studies/courses/88/lecture/20527. E. G. Malkovich Novosibirsk State University, malkovich@math.nsc.ru about einstein metrics with two functional parameters Consider the four -dimensional rimanov metric of the type G = DT2 +A21 (E 1) 2 +A22 (T) (E 2 ) 2 + (E3) 2), where 1-forms EI form the base of the algebra SU (2). As is known,