The use of artificial neural networks to evaluate the level of cognitive impairment. This work is devoted to the development of a neural networks of a plexus, which allows to evaluate the level of cognitive impairment in elderly and senile patients. They distinguish light, moderate and severe cognitive disorders [1]. That way, the task of the neural network was the correct classification of patients according to the following groups: 1 - patient is healthy; 2 - the patient has light cognitive impairment; 3 - the patient has moderate cognitive disorders; 4 - the patient has severe cognitive disorders. The initial sample consisting of 127 people was divided into teaching (70 people) and the control (57 people) group. The parameters of the neural network were: age (to the face of full years), the average time of the complex sensorimotor reaction of the choice to the visual stimulus (MS), the amount of errors when performing the test to a complex sensorimotor response of the choice, peak latency of the P300 of the occipital leads (O1, O2) . To build a diagnostic system, a multi -layer Perseptron was selected [2]. The input layer of the neural network was from 5 neurons, which corresponded to the number of initial parameters. The number of neurons of the hidden layer was selected experimentally and amounted to 53 neurons. The output layer with 4 neurons stood. As a function of activation, M.V. Studye 61 was used by the sigmoid function F (x) = 1 1 + e --λx. The neural network is implemented in Charp. To teach the neural network, an error algorithm was used. This algorithm minimizes the midst of the neural network, using the method of gradient descent in the space of thresholds and weight coefficients of fitsiments [3]. During testing, the neural network correctly symbolized patients in more than 86% of cases. Thus, the use of artificial neural sets allows you to classify patients with high accuracy by the level of cognitive impairment, which can be used to select the effective tactics of treating patients. In addition, the use of a developed neural network of a plex can significantly reduce the time aimed at assessing the level of cognitive impairment. L and T R A T R A 1. Zakharovv.V., Yakhnon.N. Cognitive disorders in old and senile age // Method. A manual for a doctor. - Moscow, 2005. - 71 p. 2. Khaykin Simon Neuron networks: Full Course, 2nd ed.: Per. from English. - M.: Ed. House "Williams", 2006. - 1104 p. 3. Akhterova.V., Kirilchenkoa.A. Fundamentals of theoretical robotics. Artificial neural networks (review). Moscow, 2008. - http://www.keldysh.ru/papers/2008/prep02/prep2008_02.html