Algorithms for solving the problem of the maximum stream in the network we will call an orgraf (v, e), each arc (u, v) ∈ V × V which is made in accordance with its throughput C (U, V)> 0. Function F: V × V → R is called a stream if for all arcs f (u, v) 6 C (U, V) and the condition of the Balance of Vanium is fulfilled [1]. The main objective of the theory of flows is to search for a maxillary flow on the network, which is based on the Ford Falkerson theorem and is realized using algorithms that distinguish the work time [2, 3]. On each iteration, the initial stream is considered, then an increase in the path is sought along which the flow is again determined, etc. The complexity of Al Gestoma is O (| E | · | f |), where | F | - Power of the maximum flow. The use of the algorithm will be justified if the capacity of the network of the network is not too large. The algorithm of the outflow of Edmonds-Carpa is to find the shortest complementary path, depending on the number of buckets used. It includes the operation of the method of dropouts, building an increase in the path, followed to the flow of the flow. Its algorithmic complexity is evaluated as O (| v | · | E | 2) and does not require the original knowledge of the magnitude of the maximum flow, but depends only on the characteristics of the column g (v, e). At the same time, for networks rich in arcs, the complexity of the algorithm will predictly be high. 152 R. A. Tutygin by the modification of the previous algorithm is an algorithm with the current “reference”, which is distinguished by a way of finding an increase in the path: instead of building a tree containing only one increase in the path, it builds a “reference” containing that increase the current of the current Stage, while “reference” after each of the flow of the flow is adjusted. This allows you to use the result of a single operation of the algorithm for the following iterations. At the same time, the assessment of the complexity of the algorithm remains the same. The dinier algorithm consists in finding a certain blocked flow, for which any path contains a busy arc: f (u, v) = C (u, v). Algorithmic complexity is evaluated as O (| V | 2 · | E |), but, for example, for trees it can be reduced to O (| E | · log | v |)). The implementation of the algorithm allows you to get practical results for networks with a relatively small number of vertices. The algorithms of “pushing the pretext”, “raise to the beginning”, binary blocking stream, the algorithms of Kun and Hopcroft-Carpa search for steamos of the couple in double-bottom columns are also widely used. L and T R A T R A 1. Basaaker., Saatite. Complete networks and columns. - M.: Science, 1974 .-- 368 p. 2. Fordl., Falkersond. Streams in networks. - M.: Mir, 1966. - 277 p. 3. Adelson-Velsky, Dinitsa. A. Karzanova.V. By current algorithms. - M.: Nauka, 1975 .-- 119 p.