Methods for the formation of metadata scientific collections proposed methods and algorithms for automatically extracting bibliographic data from uniform in the structure of arrays of publications (in particular, the releases of scientific magazine) and the formation of metadata blocks for export to between international information and analytical systems. Storage and processing of data in computer systems, data exchange between them and access to them are impossible without clearly presented descriptions of the properties of these data. Such descriptions are necessary for software tools that perform the functions of storage and processing, as well as the Paul to the inviters to assess the possibility of applying available data in various situations, interpret and analyze their content, and the formulation of search queries. Descriptions of the kind are called metadata and are a special VIT FASTION of information resources [1]. It is metadata who play an important role in the processing of scientific information. 162 Sh. M. Khaidarov metadata scientific publications include a bibliographic description of the article (authors, name, source (for example, magazine), year of publication, volume, number, initial and final pages); author’s resume (abstract, abstract) and keywords, names and places of arrangement of organizations, on behalf of which the authors presented their materials; The names of the members of the editorial board or reviewers who presented articles for publication [2]. Formed metadata allow you to receive any output of the output in automated mode, for example, the original macques of the collection of works, annotations, etc., as well as integrate into the scientific information space, for example, into the scopus citation databases, Web of Science, Rins et al. The work proposes the methods and algorithms of the automated formation of metadata scientific articles from different collections, tested, in particular, on the materials of the journal “Electronic Libraries”. The work was carried out with the financial support of the RFFI and the Government of the Republic of Tatarstan in the framework of scientific about sectors No. 15-07-08522. L and T R A T R A 1. Kogalovsky.r. Metadata in computer systems Mah // Programming. - 2013. - T. 39, No. 4. - S. 28–46. 2. Gerasimova.N., Elizarova.M., Lipachev.K., Khaida Rovsh.M. Methods of automated extraction of metabolism of scientific publications for bibliographic and reflective citation bases // Sat. scientific. articles of the XIX united conference “Internet and modern society” (IMS 2016). - St. Petersburg, 2016. - S. 41–48.