Auto -modified solutions in the theory of supercritical fluid extraction model of the process of supercritical fluid extraction usually consists of two equations of the balance sheet of targeted In the case of plant material with a high initial content of extracted substances, the macroscopic equation of the filtration of the solvent can be recorded in a sistational approximation [1]. The second equation of the model describes the microscopic diffusion transfer extract at the level of a separate particle of crushed raw materials. The approach of a tapering nucleus is often used here. In the worker, particles of a flat (plate) form are considered, 138 A.A. Salamatin, Z.F. Miftakhova characterized by dimensionless half -bore a. From a practical point of view, the case of the stratified distribution of polydisperse particles along the axis of the apparatus is interesting. In this case, the dependence of the size A on the normalized Coor of the dinata 0 6 ζ 6 1 along the axis of the device is determined by the wearing F (A (ζ)) = 1 - ζ, where F (A) is the function of the volumetric distribution of particles in size A [2]. In the case under consideration, with the steppe law of the consumption of the solvent from time, with an indicator of degree R - 1/2, the described simplified setting is reduced to the task of the cat c ′ = λ (r) 1 - c s, (1) s ′ = 1 2r̺ (s - 1 - c s) (2) relative to unknown functions C (̺) and s (̺), where ̺ is a power variable. The initial conditions have the following type C (0) = 0, S (0) = 1, (3) A dependence λ (R) is determined from the second pair of boundary conditions set at the right end of the integration segment C (1) = 1, S ( 1) = 0. (4) Based on the solution of the problem (1) - (4), you can restore the limit F (A) according to the following formulas f (̺) = 1–2λ (R + 1/2) ∫ ̺ 0 S ( ̺) D̺, A = S (̺). (5) Distribution (5) correspond to the case of complete exhaustion of the stratified polydisperse granular layer to the process of process. The assumption on the completeness of the layer can be T. V. Sofronov, I. V. Testov, N. A. Shilov 139 to be weakened, and it is possible to build more general formulas expressing the parametric dependence F (A). The work was carried out with the financial support of the Russian Fund for fundamental research and the Republic of Tatars, Grant No. 15-41-02542 R_Polzhier_A. L and T R A T R A 1. EGOROV A.G., Salamatina.a. Bidisperse shrinking Core Model for Supercritical Fluid Extection // Chem. English. Technol. - 2015. - V. 38. - No. 7. - P. 1203–1211. 2. Salamatina.a., Egorov A.G. Optimization of Supercritical Fluid Extraction: Polydispese Packed Beds and Variable Flow Rates // J. Supercrit. Fluids - 2015. - V. 105. - P. 35–43. T.V. Sofronova, I.V. Testov, N. A. Shilova Safa named after M.V. Lomonosova, Higher School of Information Technologies and Automated Systems, T.Sofronova@narfu.ru, I.Testova@narfu.ru, N.shilova@narfu.ru Organization of the educational process as part of the training “Applied Mathematics and Informatics” in the context of the multilevel system Education is a modern system of higher professional education in our country in the process of dynamic of malls caused by both socio-economic and political processes. Currently, a multi -level education system is actively driving, which is based on the position of the Bologna process. Within the framework of this