Determination of seismic signals using vyvyl-analysis signals processing using Veillet-analysis found its application in many areas, starting from the creation of the musical tracks and ending with the processing of seismic waves in the study of oil and gas deposits [1, 2]. Below the races is the next task. Let there be a signal of the provision obtained during the exploration of the field, and the database of rocky signature scalograms θ = {qi | i ∈ N}. It is required to find such a signal in θ, which is close to the source signal (by the selected metric) with a given accuracy. Note that the climax is called the function of the species (cm. [3]): S (ai, bj) = | Wa (AI, BJ) | 2. The method of analysis and comparison of seismic sigs with template signals from the θ base, based on the use of their climbers, is proposed. The algorithm for comparing the obtained seismic signal F (X, Y) with a “signal-shabet” from the database of template seismic signals is based on the method of searching for the image according to the template (cm. [4]). The initial signal F (X, Y) lays out by the owl-basis, standard quantum operations, truncation and sorting of coefficients are performed. The comparison algorithm can be divided into steps: • Step 1. Calculation of a climb for a check signal; • Step 2. Graphic image of the rock; A.M. Shamsiev 169 • Step 3. Weevlet-transforming a climb; • Step 4. truncation and quantization of the obtained owltetrochefficants; • Step 5. Finding in the database of climbers θ of a close climb using the selected metric. A modernized algorithm for analyzing a seismic signal based on the method [5], known as Shazam, has also been proposed. The algorithm for comparing the initial seismic signal and the “signal-Shablon” is implemented in the programming language C♯. The “Wave” class was created, capable of improving seismic signals, as well as perform the operating, quantizing and sorting of the indulgence coefficients. The work was carried out with financial support from the RFFI (about the ECT No. 15-07-05380) L and Tr. T R A 1. Mallas. Veillets in signal processing: per. from English. - M.: Mir, 2005 .-- 671 p. 2. KELLERW. Wavelets in Geodesy and Geodynamics. - Walter de Gruyter GmbH and Co. KG, 2004. - 277 p. 3. Vityazevv.V. Ilovet analysis of time series: textbook. by souve. -St. Petersburg: Publishing House of the St. Petersburg. University, 2001.-58 p. 4. Stage., Dorouzt., Salezind. Veillets in computers thermal graphics: per. from English. -Izhevsk: NIC "Regular and chaotic dynamics, 2002.-272 p. 5. Wangavery Li-Chun. An Industrial-Strength Audio Search Algorithm // Shazam Entertainment.-2002.-C. 1–7.