Algorithms of stereo-contributions and constructing a map of imparability The task of restoring the depth based on several captures made simultaneously is very important and necessary for many applications, for example, for those where the 3D model of the object is running out with the use of 64 T. Gaysin Images from different angles. The key point in the given task is to find a map of dyshasmnity or buna, on the basis of which the necessary model is built. Car imitism is an image in which its distance to the camera is stored for each pixel instead of color. In order to solve this problem, there are a number of algoritht MOVs that can be divided into two groups: • local hikes. These methods are used to calculate the depth at each point information only from the peak of the image of the image, as a rule, from the vicinity of this point. The computing complexity, as a rule, is low, one KO, as a result, a map of dyshaness may include quite significant errors that may not be unacceptable for many practical tasks. • Global approaches. In this case, the search for a solution is not carried out separately at each point, here each peak of the image of the image affects the solution in all other pixels. The results when using such algorithms are quite good, but the speed of execution is freely low, which makes it impossible to use them in real time. Recently, algorithms are gaining popularity, which combine the features of local and global methods. So, in particular, they, like local methods, calculate the solution in each pixel independently, but, as global methods, this solution depends not only on the pixels that are contained in the local surroundings: a hundred and each point of the image affects The solution is at any other point. The most popular such method is the semi -global method of Semi - Globalmatching. This Z.T. Galimkhanova, E.R. Sadykova 65 The method is based on the idea of ​​a Popixel comparison of the image: for each pixel, the so -called tree is formed, and the dynamic disparity is calculated by dynamic wood graming, which is a fixed set of rays emerging from one point. Obtaining a map of dyshaness in this case consists of 3 steps: 1. Popixel value calculation, 2. Summing up the Popixel costs, 3. Calculation of imparability cards. In the programmatic implementation of several algorithms using various approaches, OpenCV computer vision library was used. The experiments have shown that, firstly, in comparison with local approaches by the Luglobal method, it allows you to get a better productive map of dyshaness; Secondly, the speed of its execution is an order of magnitude higher than that of global methods. L and T R A T R A 1. Krivovyazg.r. Electronic scientific journal "About gram products, systems and algorithms". -No. 1, September 16, 2013 Z. T. Galimkhanova, E. R. Sadykova Kazan (Volzhsky) Federal University, Zuhra-1996@mail.ru, Sadikova_er@mail.ru on the role of the first geometry lessons always He was and remains one of the problematic in the methodology of teaching mathematics. To different ones