The determination of the boundaries of the continuation of the continuation of the local consistent criterion is known (see [1], [2]) that the area of ​​continuation of the local consistent criterion for checking the hypo Thesa H0: θ = θ0 in alternative h1: θ> θ0 about material P. A . Dovikov 123 parameter θ distribution of independent observations has the type of interval (a, b), however, the procedure for determining the boundaries of the interval a and in anywhere in the literature is clearly not described. In the soil work, an algorithm for the numerical finding of the boundaries of the continuation area (a, b) is properly specified by the most error of the first kind α and the average sample N (see [2]). The task of finding (a, b) is considered as the task of the numerical solution of the system of non -linear algebraic equi   α (a, b) = α, n (a, b) = n (1) relative to variables a and b, where α ( A, b) - the probability of errors of the first kind, n (a, b) - the average volume of observations at a and b, while the presentation of the functions α (a, b) and n (a, b), and even more so their derivatives, In analytical form, it is very difficult. The essence of the proposed algorithm is that the system (1) relative to A and B is solved in numerically with the power of the Broeden method [3], and at each step of the Broeden method for current a and b calculation α (a, b) and n (a, n (a, n, n (a, B) is produced by Monte -Carlo. To accelerate the operation of the algorithm, parallel calculations are used. The algorithm is implemented in the C ++ programming language using the OpenMP parallel programming library. The accuracy and time of the execution of the algorithm allow us to use it in practice. L and t e r a t r a 1. Berk R.H. Locally Most PowerFul Sequential Tests // Ann. Statist. - 1975. - V. 3. - No. 2. - C. 373–381. 124 S.K. Paymerov, A.V. Semenova, D. E. Sokolova 2. Novikovan.A., Novikovp.A. Locally the most powerful sequential criteria for checking simple hypotheses against one -sided alternatives for independent observations // Theor. Belief. approx. - 2011. - T. 56. - No. 3. - C. 449–477. 3. Broydenc.g. A class of metHods for solving nonlinear simultaneous equates // Math. Comp. - 1965. - V. 19. - No. 92. - P. 577–593. S. K. Pimerov, A. V. Semenova, D.E. Sokolova Mari State University, Paymerov@mail.ru, Nastasya.Semenova.1998@yandex.ru, Diana1997.31@mail.ru about the application of Taylor formula to the task About the approximate hidden of the arc of a circle, the purpose of the work is to generalize the Huygens formula from [1, p. 261] for the approximate hidden of the arc of a circle, small in comparison with the radius, in case of an arbitrary number of n chord. Let S = RX - the length of the arc is circled radius R, corresponding to the central corner of the X radian; DK = 2R sin (2 –KX) - chords corresponding to the central u lamp 21–kx, 1 6 k 6 n. Consider the task of representing S = RX by the approximate formula of the type S ≈ n∑ k = 1 akdk (1) with indefinite AK coefficients, 1 6 K 6 N. Using the Taylor formula (macloren) for the function f (x) = sinx