The roles of the first geometry lessons School Geometry have always been and remains one of the problematic in the methodology of teaching mathematics. In different 66 Z. T. Galimkhanov, E. R. Sadykov, various judgments were expressed about the study of geometry and its place in the school education system. This is not by chance. Geometry is one of the most important components of the mathematical education, which is necessary for the acquisition of specific knowledge about space and practically knowing skills, the formation of the language of the description of the objects of the surrounding world, for the development of spatial imagination and intuition, mathematical culture, for the aesthetic eating of students. The main geometry course begins in grade 7, therefore, it is important for the teacher from the first lesson to instill interest in the geometry, to show the need to study a new subject. In the first lessons in the study of the systematic course of geometry, the basics of planimetry are laid for the foundations of the course: the basic concepts and properties of the simplest geometric shapes are introduced, which, they who are free to build the whole course. When conducting the first lessons of geometry to the teacher, and the future teacher, first of all, must take into account that the study of a new subject in many students cause difficulties. According to the methodologists, this is due to both the psychological characteristics of the age, and with the introduction of new concepts and designations, prove the theorems, the non -formality of the skills of generalization and abstraction. One of the important points for the teacher is also what kind of textbook training is conducted. When planning and organizing lessons, it is necessary to take into account scientific theories of building textbooks. So, when training on textbooks [1], [2], in which an axiomatic approach to studying geometry is considered, the teacher should take into account that the introduction of the main geometric properties of the simplest geometric shapes is carried out by Z.T. Galimkhanova, E.R. Sadykova 67 based on a visual representation by summarizing the basic or known from the course of mathematics in grades 1–6 geometes. The fundamental moment of this topic is the introduction of the concept of equality of geometric shapes based on the concept of overlap. When working on a textbook [3], based on an author’s, visual and empirical concept, the first lesson of geometry is worn from the section “Geometry as a science. Basic concepts ”, it is called the“ geometric body ”. Many teachers and methodologists attribute what students should: depict and recognize the KAC of geometric bodies known to them, and describe them verbally; depict and recognize known surfaces in drawings and drawings, describe them verbally; Explain the terms: geometer, geometric body, body surface, plane; explain the dimension of the geometric body, surface; To solve the tasks for the image and recognition of geometric bodies, the implementation and recognition of the deployment of multi -graders known to students, depict the lines known to students and drawings, and describe them verbally. The features of the given textbook include the fact that, starting from the first lessons, the role of formal logical reasoning has been reduced, more attention is paid to the methods of solving geometric problems. The features of the first geometry lessons in the scientific methodological literature include the fact that students of the post is brought to understanding the logical structure of the geometer; The properties of the simplest geometric shapes are advisable to study through the organization of laboratory and practical work, since it is important to give students the opportunity to build geo metric objects with their own hands, to construct their 68 r.A. Galyamova, M. M. Minegalieva; Evidence is advisable to consider frontal but (or in pairs) for finished drawings or using tasks with passes. A large role in such lessons is played by visual media, the use of information and computer technologies. The use of ICT allows students to experimentally observe new interesting geometric facts. L and T R A T R A 1. Atanasyanl.S., Butuzov.f., Kadomtsev.b. et al. Gestry. Grades 7-9: a textbook for general educational institutions. - M.: Education, 2010. - 384 p. 2. Pogorelova.V. Geometry. Textbook for grades 7-9. - M.: Education, 2014 .-- 240 p. 3. Sharygini.f. Geometry 7-9 grades. Textbook. - M.: Drofa, 2012 .-- 464 p. R.A. Galyamova, M. M. Minegalieva Kazan (Volga) Federal University, Rozalya_17@mail.ru, Chance0575@gmail.com the method of finding the optimal regression equation we consider multidimensional data, where there is a set of variables XJI, J = 1, M, I = 1, n: y x1 x2 ... xn y1 x11 x12 ... x1n y2 x21 x22 ... x2n ... ... ... ... ... ... ym xm1 xm2 ... xmn