The method of identifying duplicates in different tanning digital collections of physico -mathematical documents of one of the tasks of managing digital collections is the search for duplicates - documents that have the same content. In the case of collections, including documents with texts in different languages, software tools are also needed to find all documents that are translating the same document. This task is closely related to the task of identifying borrowings in the scientific pool of liquidations (see, e.g., [1]). At the same time, it is most difficult to find in E.K. Lipachev, A.S. Mokhov 87 text fragments that are the translation from another language of already published documents. To solve this problem, approaches based on comparison are the form of lease representations of documents (see, e.g., [2, 3]). The work proposes algorithms for the search for duplicates in physical and mathematical collections of documents. For each document, a “formula code” is automatically formed in the form of a line taking into account the position of the formulas in the text, as well as the structure of the formulas. The analogy with the task of deciphering DNA made it possible to use string algo rhythms of computing molecular biology [4]. The alphabet of the “formula code” is proposed, the system of weights for formulas and the MA of thematic symbols, the tables of stop symbols and suffixes [5]. To determine the proximity of documents, the metrics of Ka Levenstein are used in the space of the lines of the collection. Testing the algorithm at the collection of documents of the portal Math-net.ru (http://www.mathnet.ru/). The modifier of algorithms is proposed for collections of documents that have before setting formulas in Mathml format (see, e.g., [7]). The work was carried out with the support of the RFFF (projects No. 15 07-08522, 15-47-02472). L and T R A T R A 1. Olverp. Journals in Flux // Notices of the AMS. - 2011. - 58 (8). - P. 1124–1126. 2. Zakharovv.N., Khoroshiloval-dr. Method for identifying borrowing in texts of multilingual documents // Analytics and data management in areas with intensive use of data: Proceedings XVIII between Dunes. Conf. Damdid/RCDL’2016. - M.: FIC IU RAS, 2016. - S. 277–282. 88 A.I. Lubysheva, K. A. Potashov 3. Ceskaz., Tomanm., Jezek K. Multilingual Plagiarism Detection // Lecture Notes in Computer Science. - 2008. - 5253. - P. 83–92. 4. Gusfield D. Algorithms on String, Trees, and Sequences: Computer Science and Computation Biology. - Cambridge University Press, 1997. - 311 p. 5. Mokhova.S. The method for determining the similarity of scientific documents on the basis of the analysis of the structure of the formulas. - final qualification work. - Kazan: KFU, 2016. - 47 p. 6. LENSTEINV.I. Double codes with the correction of loss, inserts and substitutions of characters // Dokl. USSR Academy of Sciences. - 1965. - 163 (4). - S. 845–848. 7. Elizarova.M., Lipachev.K., Malakhaltsev. And the foundations of Mathml. Presentation of mathematical texts on Internet. Practical leadership. - M.: Fizatlit, 2010. - 192 p. A. I. Lubyysheva, K. A. Potashov Kazan (Volzhsky) Federal University, nastia.lubysheva@gmail.com adaptation of the Multivate Microorganism System in Placed Oil Products The most environmentally friendly methods of soil cleaning from oil pollutants belong to the technology of biomedition, the basis of the bathroom on the bathroom using hydrocarbons of ganisms microor (MO). A reliable determination of the optimal ssia of the Naria of Restorative measures, as well as the forecast of the MAC of the pollution headquarters should be based on the calculations within the framework