The professionally oriented orientation of mathematical education at a technical university at a technical university in the process of forming a specialist a special role belongs to the course "Mathematics". Professional education of the future graduate of a technical university implies very serious mathematical training. L. Yu. Nizamiev 105 according to N.D. Kovalenko, the general goal of all mathematical courses should be to acquire graduates of the cams of universities of a certain mathematical training, in the mind of the research institute to use the studied mathematical methods in the I will, in the development of mathematical intuition, and in the eating of mathematical culture. Specialists (graduates of universities) should know the foundations of the mathematical apparatus necessary for solving theoretical and practical about fessional problems, have developed logical thinking and be able to translate a professional task into mathematical language. The general goal of all mathematical courses in Wu ZE “It is necessary to teach what is needed in the future profession, and what is difficult to learn by independently mastering a labor activity” [1, p. 39]. Yu.M. Kolyagin emphasizes that the main goal of studying mathematics at the university is to teach to change it in professional activity. But, unfortunately, the general goal sometimes leads to excessive formalism [2]. You can formulate the following requirements for the content of mathematical training at the university in addition to the general criticism of the selection of mathematical training: • Pay special attention to those sections of mathematics that serve as the basis for mathematical competence, taking into account the future profession of a graduate; • introduce elements of professional tasks requiring the use of a mathematical apparatus; • compliance with the content of the learning profile, the specifics of professional activity; • accounting for mathematical training of students; 106 L. Yu. Nizamiev • Correspondence to the age and individual characteristics of students [5]. In recent years, problems associated with a professionally oriented focus of the mathematical training of future specialists of all profiles have become quite aquatic. The presence of mathematical abilities in the student is one of the factors in the success of the process of formation at the university of professionally oriented mathematical training of the future specialist. It is necessary to develop new methods and tools for teaching mathematics in the preparation of technical specialists about Filles aimed at implementing modern requirements to the level of professionally oriented mathematical training of future specialists; consisting in the optimal way of forming an individual style of professional thinking and activity [4]. In our opinion, the solution of these problems must be implemented, first of all, in the following areas: strengthening the fundamentality of education; implementation of interdisciplings of national ties in education; ensuring the interpenetration of economic knowledge and mathematical disciplines; strengthening a professionally oriented orientation about the process of teaching mathematical disciplines; the formation of professionally significant properties and personality traits; Formation of the individual style of professional mouse and the activities of the future specialist of the technical about Filya [3]. The main tasks of the mathematics course in the preparation of specific technical alists at the university can be formulated as follows: L. Yu. Nizamiev 107 • Improving the level of professional-oriented focus of mathematical training within the general level of fundamental education of students; • creation of a certain level of basic mathematical training of students based on the accounting of an individual style of thinking and activity that they need in subsequent professional activity; • the formation of independent work skills, taking into account the individual style of thinking, the education of the need for self -education and self -improvement; • education of the main professionally significant personal qualities; • Development and conduct of mathematics classes using existing knowledge about the individual style and activity style. Thus, in the process of forming a professionally oriented mathematical training of future specifics of the technical profile at the university, it is necessary to ensure the implementation of integrative relations of mathematics and special disciplines of the technical profile in order to form students' skills necessary in the future professional activity on the basis of individual especially steers of thinking and activities. L and T R A T R A 1. Kovalenko N.D. Methods for implementing the principle of professional orientation in the selection and constructing of general educational subjects in higher education: Diss. On Sois. Uch. step. cand. ped. sciences. - Tomsk, 1995. - 158 p. 2. Kolyagin Yu.M., Pikan V.V. On the applied and practical orientation of mathematics // Mathematics in 108 l.Yu. Nizamieva to the school. - 1985. - No. 6. -S. 22 -32. 3. n