Methodological features of teaching the solution of plot problems “on movement” in the school course of mathematics for a long time tasks play a huge role in learning. The solution of problems acts as a goal and as a means of training. The ability to compose and solve problems is one of the main indicators of the level of development of students. Solving this problem, a person acquires mathematical knowledge of Z.Z. Rizvanov, E. I. Fazleev 131 and increases his mathematical education. When mastering the method of solving a certain class of tasks, a person forms the ability to solve such problems, and with a sufficient training - and skill, which also increases the level of mathematical education. Text tasks help to achieve all the goals that are set before teaching mathematics: I will give up an effective means of learning by students of mathematical methods, mathematical concepts and relations between them, contribute to a more complete implementation of subject and intersubject relationships, the development of thinking, memory, imagination, logic Students provide their pre -profile and profile training. The textual tasks of movement are considered to be for summer cottages that describe any real movement: cars go somewhere, boats float, tourists go, etc. The main components of the tasks for movement are: passing path or distance (S), speed (V), time (t), binded by the main relationship S = VT. In addition, the concept of “rapprochement” is often used to solve such problems. In the methodology of teaching mathematics, four basic stages of work on the task are identified: 1) analysis of the text of the task; 2) search for a solution and drawing up a solution plan; 3) the implementation (or implementation) of the solution plan; 4) checking the solution found, searching for other methods. At the first stage, work on the text of the task is proposed in order to understand the plot laid in it; Identification conducted 132 Z. Z. Rizvanov, E. I. Fazleev Chin, with the help of which the situation is described; The establishment of various dependencies between these values ​​or determination of relations specified by the condition of the problem. The result of such a preliminary analysis is convenient to record in the form of a table, a schematic pattern, graphics, detachment or two -dimensional diagrams with certain brief explanations. By a short record, you can restore the text of the task. The second stage of work on the task is the most difficult for students. Its result should be a mathematical model of the situation, and the formula, equation, inequality, system of equations, etc. can serve as such a model. The third stage of working with the task involves solving the half -toed at the second stage of the equation, inequality or system. At the fourth stage, a study of the problem is carried out (other methods and methods of solving or composition are proposed and the reverse problem is solved as a means of checking the main task), the answer is recorded. When working with plot tasks, a significant role is playing the definition of the solution method. We are considering a ticked, algebraic and geometric methods for solving plot problems and illustrate them with examples. L and T R A T R A 1. Malakhov.A., Orlov V.V., Radchenkov.p., Yarmolyuk V.E. Methods of working with plot tasks: Textbook methodological guide. - “Education”, 1992. 2. Pospelv.A. Movement tasks. -St. Petersburg: ed. House "Literature", 2008. 3. Ivanovat.A. Theoretical foundations of teaching the Mathema Tick in secondary school: Textbook. - N. Novgorod, NGPU, A.V. Rozhkov, M.V. Rozhkova 133 2003. 4. Shevkina.V. Learning to solve problems in grades 5-6: a book for a teacher. -3rd ed. Fixed. - M: LLC TID "RUSSOY WORD", 2002. - 208 p. A.V. Rozhkov, M.V. Rozhkova Kuban State University, Krasnodar College of Management, Technology and Technologies Ros.Seminar@bk.ru The necessary and sufficient conditions for the periodicity of the group S.V. Aleshin is not locally final groups named Burnsaydovs in honor W. Bernside, who posed the problem of their existence in 1902, in the figurative expression of Yu. I. Merzlyakov [1] "still impress lunar soil." The first example of Bernsaydova’s group, given not by the contact, but as a group of autorphisms of the mathematical object, was the group of S.V. Aleshin [2]. In [3] the design of S.V. Aleshina applies to all simple numbers P and a sufficient condition for the frequency of the Aleshin P -groups is given. R.I. Grigorchuk raised the question of finding the necessary conditions for such frequency. Let p -a simple number, v = gf (p) p is a vector about wandering, ă = {0, 1} p -p is the dimensions of 0 and 1. Determination. We put v = (v1, v2, ..., vp) ∈ V, ă (ă1, ă, ..., ising) ∈ Did. The subset σ ⊆ ă is called canceling if for any v ∈ V there is ă ∈ σ such,