The method of processing mathematical documents in the OMDOC format is currently the development of the Internet in many ways related to semantic processing of information (see, e.g., [1]). OS is a new problem when processing text files - incomplete structuring and differences in the grammatical buildings of different languages. The document created in the Tex-Note also P.O. Gafurova 71 does not have semantic expressiveness, which does not allow to perform complete computer processing of the document. This means that you need a new “machine -oriented” format of the document (see, e.g., [2]). The difficulty of processing mathematical documents is related to the dual structure of the mathematical text and its non -linearity - the documents consist of a set of formulas, determination of divisions, lemma, theorem, evidence and, as a rule, do not have a tree -like structure, which would naturally be presented in the XML format [3]. One of the approaches to solving these problems is proposed in the works [3] - [5]. The OMDOC format has been developed, which uses the Presentation Mathml notation for representing formulas (see, e.g. [2]) and RDF to denote links. At the moment, OMDOC uses the option of the contents of the RHETORICAL Structure Theory (RST), which supports such types of relations as annotation, introduction, conclusion, thesis, antithesis and a number of others. The use of this format allows you to solve a number of problems associated with the processing of Tex files, although problems such as subperational, plura lism and inflexformality remain unresolved [4]. In this work, a software tool is proposed that allows the processing of OMDOC files. The application is written in the programming language C#. As the input parameter, the name Omdoc file is used. The result of the application of the application is a list of terms with Katya Horization and indicating the connections. It should be noted that when translating mathematical documents to the “omdoc ”format, one can set ties not only among documents in Russian, but also to provide connections with documents in other languages. Tu 72 P. O. Gafurov, the opportunity allows you to combine mathematical documents in different languages ​​using ties and form complete information about this object, which in the future is used to be used in the construction of the World Digital Mathematical Library (see, e.g., [6 ], [7]). The work was carried out with the financial support of the Russian Federation and the Government of the Republic of Tatarstan (projects 15–07–08522; 15–47–02472). L and T R A T R A 1. Elizarova.M., Lipachev.K., Malakhaltsev.A. Language of the marking of a semantic web. Practical AS Pects. -Kazan: Publishing house Kazan. University, 2008.-URL: http://window.edu.ru/catalog/pdf2txt/ 971/73971/53132. 2. Elizarova.M., Lipachev.K., Malakhaltsevom.A. Based on you Mathml. Presentation of mathematical texts on Internet. - M.: Fizatlit, 2010. - 198 p. 3. Kohlhase. OMDOC: An Open Markup Format for Mathematical Documents. -FB Informatik, Universitat des Saarlandes D-66041 Saarbrucken, Germany, 2000.-64 p. 4. KOHLHASEM. OMDOC - An Open Markup Format for Mathematical Documents [Version 1.2]. - Springer, 2006. - 428 p. 5. KOHLHASEM., Iancum. Co-CRESSENTING STRUCTER and Meaning of MATHEMATICAL DOCUMENTS. - Computer Science, Jacobs University Bremen, Germany. October 26, 2015 .-- 24 p. 6. Developing a 21st Century Global Library for Mathematics Research. - Washington, D.C.: The National Academies Press, 2014. - 131 p. -URL: http://www.nap.edu/catalog/18619/develo ping-a-credury-global-libaray-for-mathematics-research. 7. Elizarova.M., Zhiltsov.g., Kirillovich., Lipa CHEVE.K., Nevzorova.A. ONTOMATH Ecosystem and O.V. Hermider, V.N. Popov 73 of the World Digital Mathematical Library. - Proceedings of the mourning. Conf. by computer. and claw. Linguistics Tel-2016. -Ka dawn: Publishing house Kazan. University, 2016.-S. 25–28. O.V. Hermider, V.N. Popov North (Arctic) Federal University named after M.V. Lomonosova, O.Germider@narfu.ru, V.Popov@narfu.ru Mathematical modeling of transfer processes in the channel formed by two cylinders as part of the free -molecular regime solved the problem of thermal massacre formed by two cylinders, radius R′1 and R ′ 2, which form the paralle of the Lelna, and the axes are shifted relative to each other by the distance A ′. The channel maintain constant gradients of tours and pressure temperatures. As the main equation, describing the process of the process, the equation of Williams was used, recorded in the cylindrical coordinate system [1], and in the form of the boundary condition on the wall of the canal - a diffusion model. The deviation of the gas state from the equilibrium is supposed to be small, which allows you to get a solution to the problem in a linarized form. To find a linear amendment to the local-moral distribution function, the task is reduced to the solution of a linear uniform differential equalization in private derivatives of the first order C⊥ cosψ ∂z ∂ro + c⊥z ∂z ∂z ∂ sinψ ρz ∂z + + + + + + 1 = 0 (1)