The study of the behavior of bulk continuous media based on the method of particles is a violation of the continuity of materials with a strong deform of the world surrender and destruction creates many problems in the description of good phenomena. The development of computing technology made it possible to return to the problem of describing the media at the micro level. At the last time, the particle method began to use more and more often. With a number of intellectual complexity of the computer model, it allows you to obtain qualitatively new results. The particle method is that the body is presented as a combination of interacting particles. As such particles are atoms, mo lectures and material points. At the moment, the potentials of intensity interaction for most materials are from the messenger, they allow you to simulate the dynamics of molecular interactions with a high degree of accuracy. The undoubted advantage of the particle method in comparison with the methods based on the concept of a continuous environment is that it requires significantly less assumption of the properties of the material. The use of only the potential of the interaction (for example, Lennard-Jones) allows you to simulate such complex effects as planning, the formation of cracks, destruction, temperature changes in the properties of the material, phase transitions. For OPI, each of these effects within the framework of the continuous environment requires a separate theory, while with modeling 54 D.V. Berezhnoy, N.F. Gabsalikov NII, these effects method are automatically obtained, as a result of integrating the equations of movement. The specifics of the particle method consists in the need to intertwine a very large number of equations. In calculations, the main time takes to calculate the force acting on this particle. This is due to the essential non -linearity of the force of interaction and the need for summarizing the pain of a shogi number of terms (primarily the forces of interaction with neighboring particles). The specified circumstance reduces the fectivity of the methods that require a multiplication of the right part of the equation in each step. To accelerate the calculation, the interaction potential is usually cut at some given distance, that is, it is believed that the interaction between particles is negligible and it is not taken into account in the calculations. Therefore, for the calculations made in this work, the space is divided into cubic cells and for particles in a certain cell, interaction is considered only with particles from the cells borderline with it. Thus, it is possible to finish off that the number of operations is a proportional number of particles. The entire area of ​​space is divided between the processes of the litter, at each step of integration, the processor performs the calculation inside the area allotted to it with the capture of the grains of real cells from neighboring areas, and then the information about the particles located in the border cells of kah. The potential of Lennard-Jones used in the work is double-parametric, so it has very limited possibilities for the variation of the macroscopic parameters of the material simulated. In fact, he allows Udo D.V. Berezhnoy, N.F. Gabsalikova 55 to fly the value of only one macroscopic pair of meters - for example, the elasticity module or the limit is firmly style in statics, the rate of spread of longitudinal waves in dynamics. The relationship between these parameters remains unchanged. On the other hand, this potential captures accurately describes the forces of the interaction of van-der-vals, playing an important role in solid bodies. The potential of Lennard Jones is widely used as a classic model in Tenziel, especially in works in which the main task is the study of general physical laws, and not obtaining accurate quantitative results. In the work, a particle method was implemented, which allows IP to follow the interaction of a certain system of material points in a potential field. To describe the movement of the totality of material points, the senuine of the equations of movement was used. Its integration was carried out using the verle method. The potentials of accounting were considered, indicating their main properties. When composing the equations of movement, it was possible to move material particles, taking into account dissipation. In addition, it was possible to investigate the behavior of material points on gravity going in the field. A number of model tasks were solved, when solving which the potential of Lennard Jones was used. The results were analyzed. The publication of the theses of the report was carried out with the financial support of the Russian Federation and the Government of the Republic of Tatarstan as part of scientific projects No. 15-41-02555, No. 15-07-05380. L and T R A T R A 1. Sadovsky M.A. Natural causticity of the rock // Dan USSR. -1979.-T. 247.-No. 4.-S. 829-831. 56 D.V. Berezhnoye, L. R. Gainulin 2. Rieth M. Nano-Vengineering in Science and Technology. Singapore: World Scientific, 2003. - 151 p. 3. Sibille L., Nicot F., Donze F.V., Darve F. Material Instabide in Granular Assemblies Fr