The study of the non -custody of elastic systems using the example of a free rod in the work examines small flat low -frequency bending vibrations of a homogeneous straight free rod, the longitudinal dimensions of which are much larger than transverse. To D.V. Captains, M. E. Suslov 81 to the left end of the rod, the monitoring force is applied. The use of the principle of Hamilton -Ostrogradsky allows us to obtain an equation of movement and regional conditions in an alternative form. The study of the resulting task for stability is associated with great mathematical difficulties. To circumvent these labor allow various close methods. The work uses the Bubnov -Galekin method, based on the use of basic functions that satisfy the boundary conditions of the task. A set of basic functions is represented by Krylov’s functions for a simplified task that describes the rod of the rod under the same boundary conditions in the case of friction and the effects attached to the end of the force, and in the form of polynomes that satisfy the boundary conditions and have the property of orthonormism. Determination of the boundary of stability in the space of a couple of meters of the system is carried out numerically. Using the procedure for the bubnov -galerkin method allows you to obtain a characteristic equation, the study for the stability of which is carried out using the Raus -Gurvitsa criterion. The number of imperishable parameters is large, but the main interest is the study of the loss of stability depending on the paramet of the load of the load. The critical value of the load was obtained by variating the corresponding parameter from zero to some kind of value, in which the fulfillment of the conditions of the criterion of the Raus -Gurvitsa will be impaired. The results are presented in the case of a two -fashioned and three -way approximation according to the Bubnov -Galekin method with two types of basic functions described above. The critici 82 D. V. Captains, M.E. Suslov, the load values ​​indicated in the work [1.2], are consistent with the result of the result of the tatami. It is worth noting that the value of the critical load in the presence of internal friction is less than with its absence. This phenomenon in the literature is called the paradox of destabilization [3, 4]. The work was carried out with partial financing of the RNF (grant No. 16-19-10279) in terms of setting the task stable to stable the style of a free rod. L and T R A T R A 1. Feodosyevv.I. On one task of stability // with stagnant mathematics and mechanics - 1965. - Issue. 2. - C. 391–392. 2. Palosh V.E. Study of the stability of the free knitting of the cooped rod under the influence of the monitoring force // Bulletin of MSTU named after N.E. Bauman. Ser. Natural sciences - 2006. - No.. 4. - C. 72–78. 3. Seyranyana.p. The paradox of destabilization in the tasks of the stability of non -custody systems // Success of the mechanic - 1990. - T. 13. - Issue. 2. - C. 89–124. 4. Bolotinv.V. The non -custody of the theory of elastic stability. - M.: State Publishing House of Physico Mathematical Literature, 1961. - 340 p.