The organization of the educational process in the framework of the training “Applied Mathematics and Informatics” in the context of the multi-level education system is a modern system of higher professional education in our country is in the process of dynamic of menia caused by both socio-economic and political processes. Currently, a multi -level education system is actively driving, which is based on the position of the Bologna process. Within the framework of this 140 T. V. Sofronov, I.V. Testov, N. A. Shilov, the main educational programs are designed for four- and six-year training, that is, the preparation of the tank of laurels and masters, respectively. In addition, in accordance with the new Federal Law “On Education in the Russian Federation” dated December 29, 2012 No. 273-ФЗ, which entered into force on September 1, 2013, graduate school becomes a step of higher education. Thus, the system of higher education becomes three -level. On the basis of the Higher School of Information Technologies and the Automated Systems of the Northern (Arctic) Federal University named after M.V. Lomonosov training of students in the framework of the training “Applied Mathema Tik and Informatics” began in 2000. The stage of transition to a multi -level training system was initiated by opening in 2007 the undergraduate programs in the field of training 03/01/02 “Applied Mathematics and Informatics KA”. Since 2009, educational programs of the MA of Gistustracy in the field of training 01.04.02 “Applied Mathematics and Informatics”, such as “Mathematical and In formation of economic activity” and “System programming” have been implemented. In 2011, the master's program “High-performance and Oblast Computing” was opened, and in 2014 “Mathematical modeling of socio-economic processes”, according to which about 30 people are currently studying. In its activities on the deployment of the magistracy, the Verusity was guided by the Regulation on the master's under preparation (magistracy) in the system of multi -level higher education of the Russian Federation, approved by the staging of the State Committee of the Russian Federation according to T. V. Sofronov, I.V. Testov, N. A. Shilov 141 Higher Education No. 42 of September 10, 1993. This regulatory document played and continues to play the most important role in the formation of the Magistracy Institute in the Russian Federation. The transition to a multi -level training system forces, first of all, to coordinate the requirements of three standard: standards for the preparation of bachelors, masters and a graduate student, and also obliges to harmonize basic education programs and create a system of interconnected textbooks of all levels. The creation of a system of interconnected curricula in the unity in the direction of preparation “Applied Mathematics and Informatics” at all levels was carried out on the basis of a deep analysis and coordination of the requirements of three standards. The conjugation of educational programs and curricula was carried out by introducing disciplines from the standards of the magistracy into the curriculum of the undergraduate, as well as due to the schedule of fundamental preparation of bachelors in the profession of the syonal cycle, the introduction of disciplines, which are common to all profiles within the framework of the training. The principle of consistency of structural and substantial filling of the main reference programs and working curriculums implemented in the Higher School of Information Technical Systems and Automated Systems, the framework for the board of training “Applied Mathematics and Information” allows you to make the learning process continuous in the STEM “Bachelor-Magistracies” . The development of basic educational programs occurs in the process of profiling the preparation and fundamentalization (academicity) of students' knowledge. As a result of the full CEC of 142 T. V. Sofronova, I. V. Testov, N. A. Shilova, two -level training among graduates forms competencies that allow them to solve specialized problems in all areas of professional activity. The complementarity and interdependence of the levels of preparations ensure the integrity of the educational process and its nonlinearity, as well as interdisciplinary integration and the ability to design the learning outcomes in the context of the competencies of the profile, that is, the qualification function of the graduate. The continuity of the levels of preparation of the software for the rule of “applied mathematics and computer science” is lived in the launch of professional activities enshrined in standards. This agreement allows you to more successfully prepare graduates of undergraduate and magistracy for professional activities or further education at the University of Three. Graduates of the magistracy in the field of training “Applied Mathematics and Informatics” have the opportunity to continue training in graduate school in the direction of training 09.06.01 “Informatics and computer technology”, you