The method of universal description of the relationship between the tabular data in Excel format and the database for the subsequent entry of information in the database during computer modeling forms a large amount of data that is subordinated to a certain output format. Most often, this information is stored in Excel files. Search for the resulting file system is associated with pain difficulties. Reasonable output - creating a database with the subsequent entry of all information from files to it. But at the moment, there are no tools that can collect information about the structure of tables from the database and C to put it with the Excel format, in which the data is stored, for a unified entry in the database without linking to the structure of the tables. We try to develop a method for describing the database connection with the storage format in the file. The result of the work was the creation of a configuration file in JSON format, which allows to describe the relationship between the database and the format in Excel. Such a choice of storage of information is brought up by a convenient method of reading JSON objects in most programming languages, such as: C ++, PowerShell, C♯. This made it possible to write a program that, using information from the configuration file, exports given from Excel files in the database. The configuration file inside itself contains Json A.V. Markov 95 Object with 4 properties: {Excel: {}, DB: {}, MAPS: [], Scenario: []}. All the entities located in the sections of "Excel" and "DB" are indexed, which allows you to create an inxic system for a mutual and single-digit definition and about dropping during use. We describe the essence of each security to present their purpose. Section "Excel" contains information about the parental folder, the file named after the Excel book, which will be searched, and logical Excel Tables located on the same sheet. The "DB" section contains a description of the parameters of the connection to the database and information about the tables. Section "Maps" describes the connection of the columns of the table of tables with the columns Excel tables. This field is an array of objects. The upper index was selected by the table of the table of the table, since the values ​​of its column of the COV can belong to columns of different Excel tables. In the given section, only those tables of tables are described in which the Columns field is not empty. The SCENARIO section describes the order of the table of the table of tables, including the reaction to erroneous data or their absence, as well as the reaction to a non -resistant result for the Select type millet. This field is an array of objects. Excel and “DB” sections allowed to encapsulate information about Excel-format and the structure of the database in various objects, connecting them through the index system collected together in the “Maps” security. This approach allows parallel work to describe excel format and database tables that are involved in Excel. Another important advantage of this approach can be considered a fairly easy process of expanding the list of properties of each object.