Modeling the adaptive regulator for electric power systems the main element of the power generation system is an electric generator. The prevailing role is played by electromechanical induction generators of alternating current. Such generators have relatively about standing device and allow you to generate large currents with a sufficiently high voltage. The function of ensuring the operating ability of the energy system is assigned to automatic regulation systems that support the acceptable for so far the quality of electricity quality both in normal and in AVA Riyn (non -standard) modes. Currently, within the framework of SI Stem, the fuzzy Yu.S. Polinkina, E.S. Shcherbinin 127 Logic regulators (NLR). The fuzzy logical regulators of the Torah are expert, and the algorithms of their synthesis are difficult to formalize for complex management objects that have the property of uniqueness. The fuzzy regulator allows you to effectively damp the power fluctuations with a pre -unknown and changing mathematical model of the gene of RA and the energy system. It also allows you to exclude complex and laborious settings during the start -up tests and during the operation of the synchronous general of Tor. A synchronous generator working in the electricity generation system is an unsteady and non -linear volume, which necessitates the use of adaptive automatic batteries (arv) and power stabilizers (cm), which ensure the damping of the rotor oscillations and, as a result, improve stability energy systems. The task of the regulator is the creation of an additional one with an electrical power ∆re, which is changed in the phase with the transformation of the full angle of the load θ, reinforcing the excitation voltage VF. Consider the procedure for building a fuzzy control algorithm. The setting of the parameters of the functions of entry and the output coefficients is based on the input-output data pairs. The selection of the most significant rules is carried out [1]: - if the derivative of the speed of the rotor DW/DT matters “average positive”, then the output value of the variable VSTAB - the stabilization voltage will be “average positive”; - If the derivative of the speed of the rotor DW/DT matters “average negative”, then the output value of 128 Yu.S. Polinkin, E. S. Shcherbinin VSTAB - stabilization voltage will be “large negative”; - If the DW/DT rotor derivative of the speed of the rotor is “small”, then the output value of the variable VSTAB - the stabilization voltage will be “small”. If the angle of deviation of the rotor of one of the generators goes beyond the limiting values ​​(emerges from synchronism), then the defense system is fucked. The energy system works stably after a short sauna on the power lines, the generators do not fall out of synchronism, since the fuzzy regulator stabilizes the power system of the energy system, reduces the intervention of the opera opera in the control process and, therefore, allows you to work new control methods more adapted to the industrial environment. In addition, it is possible to perform an optimum of the sample of complex contours of regulation without all third -party mathematical studies. L and T R A T R A 1. Zhdanov A. A. On one methodology of autonomous adapting control // Proceedings of the Institute system. Progr. -M.: Bionformservice, 2000.-T. 1.-S. 66-83. 2. Shcherbinin E. S. Modeling of the electric power system in the environment of Matlab Simulink [Electronic resource] // MA TERIALS IMIZH. youth scientific and practical. Conf. “Intelligence of the XXI century” (Prague, February 15, 2016) / Ed. A.I. Veretsova. -Praga: Vydavatel "Osviceni", 2016.-S. 17-22.