The calculation of the tape supermachow in the form of a system N concentric cylinders has recently gained great importance to the gamble of energy accumulation. To date, new MA Terials allow not only to improve the existing electrochemical batteries, but also to look for new methods of accumulation and storage of energy. One of the relatively simple and, D.V. Berezhnoye, L. R. Gainulin 57 at the same time, the technology for baking energy is extremely promising using a flywheel that retains the energy transferred to him in the form of kinetic energy of rotation. Particular attention is paid to the accumulation of energy in mechanical drives on supermachows. Of the potential fields used in technology, and the names of gravitational, electrostatic and magnetic, in the system of the Mahovik-Corps, the latter can be used. The use of potential communication in mutual repulsion of the poses flows to unload the outer layers of the flywheel by transferring the load on the body and thus increase the speed of the flywheel and the stocking energy. To create magnetized ribbons, a magnetic powder is used, which is introduced into the compositional mass, and the manufacturing material is poured. From such a magnetized tape, the rim of the flywheel is wound. Thus, the whole MA Hovik acquires the properties of a magnet with a radial magnitude, and each subsequent round of winding is drawn to the previous one. The magnetic case is made by winding with magnetic tape (previously used for the winding of the rim of the flywheel), but with oncoming magnetization. Under the influence of magnetic forces, the flywheel rim will be repelled from the magnet of the case. However, a significant restriction of this technology from storage of energy is the high speed of rotation, which can lead to a sharp increase in the level of stresses in the flywheel and its subsequent destruction. An essential factor that determines the specific energy intensity of kinetic energy drives is the ratio of the maximum destructive stress to the density of the material, which, in CO 58 D.V. Berezhnaya, L. R. Gainulin, dictates the use of supermachowers (flywheels performed by the way winding of threads or tapes). The work provides the basis of the methodology of numerical leakage of the specific energy intensity of kinetic energy drives and the calculation of stresses in the supermachow, made by the nozzle of the family n concentric thin cylinders on each other with different types of interference. The influence of the relative radius of the internal hole in the flywheel and the Poisson coefficient of the material on the specific energy intensity of the supermachowing is reached. The work of the report was carried out with the financial support of the Russian Federation and the Government of the Republic of Tatarstan in the framework of scientific projects No. 15-41-02555, No. 15-01-05686. L and T R A T R A 1. Belykh K.V., Filkin N.M. To a QUESTION OF CALCULATION Flywheel Drives of Kinetic Energy / Materials of the International Scientific and Practical Conference “Upgrade and Scientific Researchs in a Transport Complex”. -2012.-V. 1.-P. 281-289. 2. Berezhnoi D.V., Chickrin D.E., Galimov A.F. On Specific Energy Capace of Flywheel Energy Storage // Applied Mathematical Sciences. - 2014. - Vol. 8, N. 124. - P. 6181 - 6190. 3. Berezhnoi D.V., Chickrin D.E., KURCHATOV E.Yu., Galimov A.F. Estimation of Specific Energy Capace of Flywheel-Housing System in Potential Field // Applied Mathematical Sciences. . - 2014. - Vol. 8, N. 163. - P. 8125 - 8135. 4. Belykh K.V., Filkin N.M. On the issue of calculating the vale drives of kinetic energy // Mater. Mezh. scientifically - pract. Conf. "Modernization and scientific research in the transport complex." - 2012. - T.1. - 281 - 289 p. D.V. Berezhnoye, L. R. Gainulin 59 5. Berezhnaya, D.V., Chikrin, D.E., Galimov, A.F. Studies of the specific energy intensity of kinetic drives of energy // Tsekal methods for regional tasks and applications. Mater. Tenth member. Conf. - Kazan: Kazan University Tet. - 2014. T.1 - 148 - 155 p. 6. Berezhnaya D.V., Gainulina L.R., Fedorova I.A. Calculation of the specific energy intensity of the flea energy drives // Mater. XX Symposium "dynamic and technological problems of structures and continuous media mechanics. A.G. Gorshkova. - 2014. - T.1. - 26 - 28 p. 7. Sultanov, L.U. Mathematical Modeling of Deformations of Hyperalastic Solids // Applied Mathematical Sciences. - Vol. 8, N 143.-2014, P. 7117-7124. 8. Sultanov L.U., Davydov R.L. Mathematical Modeling of Large Elastic-Plastic Deformations // Applied Mathematical Sciences. - Vol. 8, N. 60.-2014.-P. 2991-2996. 9. Davydov R.L., Sultanov L.U. Solving the problem of large elastoplastic deformations by the method of final elements // scientist. Zap. Kazan. un-te. Ser. Fiz.-Matem. Sciences. - 2012. - T. 154, Prince. 4.-C. 17-25.