The chaotic dynamics in systems set by one -dimensional display many processes of the real world, both stable and nonlinear, can be described in the form of mathematical moles of some dynamic systems. In modern designs, the problems of the deterministic chaos, which are generated by the internal essence of nonlinear processes, are increasingly being considered. The study of their dynamics, as well as the search for the conditions for the occurrence of chaos in systems of various kinds, is very acting at present. The chaotic behavior of systems is being studied in the studies of the Earth’s atmosphere, various phrasic processes, in biology, ecology. In information technology, the laws of dynamic chaos are applied for pussy, search and protection of information. The work is devoted to the location and evidence of the conditions for the existence of chaos in the study of simple models of di native systems set by one -dimensional display with one and two parameters. A complete study of the dynamics of display f (x) = m (x3–6x), specified in the actual area, was carried out. The intervals of the values ​​of the parameter M are determined and the existing of the random behavior of the orbit of points for all found intervals is proved. The proof of the existence of the chaos of the OPI N. I. Nashrov, I. A. Khvyuzov 103 is on the Glending theorem [1]. It should be noted that serious attention is paid to the study of the dynamics of symmetric and asymmetric tent -shaped display, and these models are studied quite well (see, e.g., [2–4]). Discrete dynamic systems, set by tent -like display, are increasingly used in the construction of environmental and population models [5], to solve the problems of thermal power industry [6] and in other branches of science and human activity. At the same time, the studies of asymmetry tent -shaped display known to us, in which various methods of studying dynamics and methods proof of the existence of chaos were not exhaustive. We studied the dynamics of the display set by the system of two linear functions with parameters F (x) = {1 + AX, X 6 0, 1 - bx, x> 0. In the process of research, the plane of parameters (a, b) times the bit in the area where The display has the same dynamics. Founded and two -peridic points F (X), the deferes are found, their types are built, web and bifurcation diagrams were built. For each area, analytical methods about the knowledge of the dynamics of display f (x). For the possesses of the values ​​of the parameters in which the existence of chaos is observed, the proof of the chaotic behavior of the orbit of the points was carried out using the Glending theorem [1]. L and T R A T R A 1. Glendining P. Stability, Instabide and Chaos. - Cambridge: Cambridge Univ. Press, 1994. - 399 p. 104 L. Yu. Nizamiev 2. Al-shameriw.f.h., Mahiubm.a. SOME Dynamical Properties of the Family of Tent Maps // Int. J. of Math. Analysis. -2013.-V. 7, No. 29.-P. 1433-1449. 3. Lindstrom T., Thunberg H. An Elementary Approach to Dynamics and Bifurcations of Skew Tent Maps // J. Dif. EQ. and Appl. -2008.-V. 14.-P. 819-833. 4. Sushko I., Gardini L. Degenerate Bifurcations and Border Collisions in Piecewise Smooth 1D and 2D MAPS // Int. J. of Bifurcation and Chaos. - 2010. - V. 20, No. 7. - P. 2045–2070. 5. Lindstromt. Dynamical Properties of Maps Fitted to Data in the Noise-Free Limit // J. Of Biological Dynamics. -2013.-V. 7, No 1.-P. 108-116 6. Wang shuang-Xin, Li Han, Zhang Xiu-Xia, Wang Zhi-Qin Nonlinear Predictive Control of Boiler-Turbine-Generation UNIT BASS Optimization / 2nd Chaotic Modeling and Simulation Intern. Conf. - Crete, Greece, 2009. L. Yu. Nizamiev Kazan National Research Technical University named after A.N. Tupoleva (KAI), nizamievalu@ya.ru Professional-oriented orientation of mathematical education at a technical university at a technical university in the process of forming a specialist a special role belongs to the course "Mathematics". Professional education of the future graduate of a technical university implies very serious mathematical training.