The numerical modeling of the interaction of shock waves with multi -layer deformable barriers of wicker nets multi -layer gas -permeable obstacles are an fective means of protecting the structure from the effects of shock waves (HD). Such obstacles are layers of metal wicker nets and are used to reduce the amplitude of passing iv. With significant effects, the barrier may experience deformations, including irregularly, irreversible. Such processes are characterized by mutual connection of deformation of the permeable design and dynamics about naught media. A numerical methodology [1] has been developed and the results of the interaction of UV with the deformable multi -layer pack of tami of metal wicker nets were obtained. The net of nets forms de formed permeable skeleton of the medium, which suggested I. A. Turagin 149 is extinguished by a continuous continuous medium - a continuum. The dynamic behavior of the mesh package with a moving powder gas is described on the basis of the equations of the dynamics of two mutual reinuating continuums, each of which (the skeleton of the medium and pore gas) has its own speeds, stresses (pressure) and temperature. The set of nets is supposed to be a packaged regional manner (i.e., the threads are laid quasipralllel) and contextively orthotropic with three orthotropy axes. The first axis of orthotropia is directed by normal to the layers in the net package, other axes are directed with the direction of the threads. Based on the results of the tests carried out in the experimental laboratory of the NSU, it was established that the package is grown in compression by normal to layers and stretching along the threads in the plane of layers. The surface of the contact of pure gas with a pori stand (a bag of nets) is the surface of the porosity rupture, that is, a combined gap, on which special conditions should be met. Using a package of UPSGOD 2D applied programs, the numerical solution of the suspicimetric two -dimensional task on the explosion in the air of non -canonical cylindrical dawn and the final length located inside the rolled package of wicker nets (the charge axis coincides with the axis of the bag). A comparison of numerical results with known experimental data [2] was carried out according to the parameters of passing waves. It was established that the presence of a bag of nets reduces maxillary amplitude pressure values ​​by 15 - 20% and an excess pressure impetus in the wave by 12-15%. The relative reduction of the amplitude corresponds to experimental data. In the process of dynamic loading, the bag of nets is deformed elasticoplastically and acquires a bell of 150 I. A. Turagin with a different shape, qualitatively corresponding to the residual form of the package in the experiment. The author expresses gratitude for the help in conducting research by E.G. Glazova, Kochetkov A.V., Krylova S.V., Modina I.A. The work was supported by the Grant RFFI (No. 16-08 00458), the Ministry of Education and Science of the Russian Federation as part of the back of the state assignment (project code 2014/134 2226). Literature 1. Glasov. G., Kochetkova., Krylov.V., Turygi Na.A. Numerical modeling of the interaction of shock waves with permeable deformable multi -layer strokes of wicker nets // Problems of strength and plasticity. - 2016. - T. 78. - No. 1. - C. 81–91. 2. Glazov. G., Kochetkova., Krylov.V., Mitrof Novs.S., Osavchuk.N., Diky.A., Kulikov.N. A numerically experimental study of the spread of shock waves through cylindrical bags of metal nets // Bulletin of the University of Nizhny Novgorod named after N.I. Lobachev. - 2011. - Issue. 5 (1). - C. 122–129.