The method of integrated diversity in modeling critical phenomena in the tasks of chemical kinetics is devoted to the problems of modeling and study of critical phenomena in the tasks of chemical kinetics based on a geometric approach. When modeling and studying the objects and processes of various nature, the nature of which is the ability of at the same time 160 N. M. Firstov, E. A. Shchepakin to perform quick and slow movements, naturally indignant systems arise at once. The use of an integrated variety of diversified systems is an effective tool for the shaped study of dynamic models, as it is pos that it will gain an idea of ​​the behavior of the system as a whole, and not its individual trajectories. This is especially true for models with non -fixed initial conditions and/or with a large number of parameters. As illustrations of this approach, Dina was considered mycous models of electrochemical reactors [1,2]. On the basis of the study of the slow integral variety of defense, the main regimes in the studied chemical systems. Attraction of asymptotic methods made it possible to determine the conditions under which critical regimes are observed, omiting the role of the watershed between safe processes and self -risk modes. It should be noted that interest in critical phenomena is explained not only by considerations of security, but also by the fact that the critical regimes in many cases are the most effective from a technological point of view, this work is supported by the RFFI (grant 14-01-97018) and the Ministry of Education) and the Ministry of Education) and the science of the Russian Federals, as part of the implementation of the program “Research and times of work on priority areas of development of the scientific and technological complex of Russia for 20149-2020” as part of the RFMEFI58716X0033 agreement. L and T R A T R A 1. Firstovan.m. The study of critical phenomena in the Delhi of the electrochemical reactor // Bulletin of the Samara G. M. Khaidarov 161 Sudar University - 2013. - T. 110 (9/2). - C. 221–226. 2. SHCHEPAKINA E. FIRSTOVAN. Study of Oscillatory Processes in the One Model of ElectroChemical Reactor // Ceur Workshop Procedings. - 2016. - Vol. 1638. - P. 731–741. -DOI: 10.18287/1613-0073-2016-1638-731-741. Sh.M. Khaidarov Kazan (Volga) Federal University, shajdaro@kpfu.ru Methods for the formation of metadata scientific collections proposed methods and algorithms for automatically extracting bibliographic data from uniform massifs of publications (in particular, the release of scientific logs) and the formation of metadata blocks) For export in between international information and analytical systems. Storage and processing of data in computer systems, data exchange between them and access to them are impossible without clearly presented descriptions of the properties of these data. Such descriptions are necessary for software tools that perform the functions of storage and processing, as well as the Paul to the inviters to assess the possibility of applying available data in various situations, interpret and analyze their content, and the formulation of search queries. Descriptions of the kind are called metadata and are a special VIT FASTION of information resources [1]. It is metadata who play an important role in the processing of scientific information.