The scientific heritage of Bilsur Gabdulkhaevich Gabdulkhaev memory of the scientific director 1936–2008 Gabdulkhaev Bilsur Gabdulkhaevich, doctor physical. Sciences, a professor of Kazan University, graduated from the Council of School in the village of Yangulovo (Baltasinsky district, RT) in 1955 and entered the Kazan Agricultural Institute. There Yu.R. Agachev, A.F. Galimanov, e. K. Lipachev, A.V. Ozhegova 5 Student B.G. Gabdulkhaev is listening to the highest mathematics at the Activities of Humer Mirsaidovich Shaidukov, who noticed his nonsense, in -line mathematical abilities. At the suggestion of Shayd, Kova Gabdulkhaev, next 1956, enters the Physics and Mathematics Department of Kazan University, brilliantly choosing entrance exams for the specialty of the Mathema Tika. Since that time, his life is inextricably linked with Kazan University. As a student, he intensively engaged in research work under the leadership of the head. The Department of Mathematical Analysis, Professor Boris Mi Hailovich Gagaev, and after graduating in 1961 with honors from the Mechanical and Mathematics Faculty of Kazan University of Atta, enters him in full-time graduate school. But after 5 months, at the suggestion of Gagaeva B.G. Gabdulkhaev begins to work as an assistant at the Department of Mathematical Analysis, conducting up to 30 hours of classes per week, combining the work with studying in absentee graduate school. From that time until the last month, Bilsur Gabdulkhaevich, Bilsur Gabdulkhaevich, enthusiastically teaches students to his favorite business - science of mathematics. During the profession of ional activity, he reads disciplines in the main sections of higher mathematics and special mathematical courses at Kazan University and the Pedagogical Institute. In 1966, B.G. Gabdulkhaev defends the candidate Disser on the topic “Some issues of the theory of close meters and their applications to the singular integral equi” [9]. The dissertation was highly appreciated by both the head and opponents. In particular, a member of the corr. USSR Academy of Sciences V.K. Ivanov suggested in the same year to defend her as Doc Torska's dissertation. However, Gabdulkhaev refuses, and this is manifested by his exceptional modesty and high 6 Y.R. Agachev, A. F. Galimyanov, e. K. Lipachev, A.V. Ozhegov demanding on himself. In the 70s, Bilsur Gabdulkhaevich Ra was stirring, at the invitation in Bulgaria, an assistant professor of Plovdivsky and Sofia universities, and also collaborates with the Bulgarian Academy of Sciences. In 1986, at the Mathematical Institute of the Academy of Sciences of the Ukrainian SSR (Kyiv) B.G. Gabdulkhaev defends a doctoral dissertation in the form of a scientific report on the topic “Optimal approximations of decisions of linear tasks and direct methods for solving singular integral equations” [82]. In the recall of the official opopo Nent, a major specialist in mathematical physics and you are numeral methods, Professor S.G. Mikhlin notes that the doctoral dissertation of Gabdulkhaev is an outstanding contribution to mathematics. Scientific research B.G. Gabdulkhaev and his students quickly quickly found practical application of aerohydrome -mechanicals, electrodynamics, computer tomography, etc. Under his leadership, a number of business contracts with industrial enterprises were made. B.G. Gabdulkhaev understood the importance of using computer technologies in scientific research and the first computer class on Mehmat (previously only display) appeared on the initiative of Bilsur Gabdulkhaevich at the funds of the CHOZ -led by him. His efforts, with the support of the dean of Mehmat Vladimir Vladimirovich Vishnevsky, in 1988, a department of theory of functions and approximation was created, one of the tasks of which was the introduction of computers in the scientific and pedagogical activities of the faculty. Since the creation of the department until the end of its life B.G. Gabdulkhaev was the head of this department. The branch of the department in Naberezhnye Chelny (NGPI) was also opened. Yu.R. Agachev, A.F. Galimanov, e. K. Lipachev, A.V. Ozhegova 7 Scientific research at the department under the leadership of Gabdul Haeva was conducted at the junction of the theory of functions and approximations, the function of civil analysis and integral equations, computing mathematics and mathematical physics. These studies in combination with computer technologies had practical significance. In the late 80s and early 90s, the department with the State Institute of Applied Optical Defense with the State Institute of Defense under an economic agreement with the State Institute. As a result, another scientific area was formed related to the development and justification of the approximate method for solving the problems of diffraction and the distribution of the electromags of nipple waves. The department actively participated in the work of the scientific technical society on instrumentation. S.I. Vavilo Va. A new approach to solving computed tomography problems has been proposed. From 1974 to the present, the created B.G. Gabdulkhaev Interuniversity Scientific seminar “Theory of approximation and its applications”. It should be noted that at each seminar, Bilsur Gabdulkhaevich set relevant on improper tasks, discussed possible ways to solve them, while the erode