Modeling elastic heterogeneous media using the particle method in accordance with the modern representations of mechanics deformable solid body is a hierarchically organized bath system, which can be schematically represented by a combination of deformation mechanisms [1]. In this regard, there is a wide range of tasks in which changes in the environment are accompanied by multiple destruction and slipping of elements or fragments relative to each other, intense mass -transmission, including tea effects of particles of various nature, etc. When solving such problems, the use of grid methods meets significant difficulties. However, recently, the numerical methods adapted to the modeling of destruction and the factors described above have become increasingly popular with. Such methods are called - particle methods [2]. Due to the fact that these methods make it possible to solve problems both at the macro -level and on the scale of the atomic level, there is a possible study of mechanical media of any level of complexity. For a media with various rheology, an expression for the force that acts on a particle I from the part of the particles surrounding it is recorded in the form of: Mi D2R dt2 = fi = nij = 1 f IJ Pair + F i ω. (1) V.V. Mikheev 101 The main task of the particle method is to integrate a large number of equations. During calculations, a lot of time takes the definition of force that acts on this CE stits. The Verla algorithm is one of the simplest methods. You are determined by the position of the particle according to its two previous provisions: r (t + τ) = 2r (t) - r (t - τ) + ω (t) τ2, (2) where τ is the step of integration, ω (t) - The acceleration of the particle to determine the interaction forces between the particles is considered the pair potential (r), the interaction force F (R) corresponding to it is defined as: f (r) ≡ −π̇ (r). (3) Using a high -performance cluster and with the help of Jap Python, different models were obtained. It should be noted that we used the modified potential of Lennard-Jones, which showed better similarities with real processes and objects. In the future, the possibilities of determining the physical parameters of the simulated objects and solving various problems appear, and the simulated environment will gradually become more complicated. The work was carried out with the financial support of the RFFI and the Government of the Republic of Tatarstan as part of scientific about sectors No. 15-41-02555, No. 15-07-05380 l and the 1. Sadovsky.A. Natural causticity of mountain by childbirth // Dan USSR. - 1979. - T. 247. - C. 829–831. 2. Harlowf.n., Evans M.W. Method for Hydrodynamic Calculations // Los Alamos. - 1957.