Periodic orbits in the dynamics of a piece of side disposures with the parameter of one-dimensional discrete dynamic systems are widely used in physics, technology, biology, ecology, sociology and other sciences. For example, when studying simple models of financial markets or constructing environmental and population models, dynamic systems are explored, data using continuous and piece-line diligents, in particular, symmetric and asymmetric ten-shaped display, set by a system of two linear functions with one or two parameters (see, e.g., [1-5]). Note that the study of the dynamics of such references reduced serious attention and these models have been studied quite well. The next step towards studying tent -shaped reflection is the study of the case when the functions in the system are nonlinear. We are considering one of the private servants of this task, when the function depends on one parameter, which allows you to conduct a full study of the dynamics set by 48 I. I. Aksanov, D. Z. Urazov Nogo Nonlinear Tentine Display F (X) = {Ax2, 0 6 X 6 1, AX -1, X> 1. (1) As a result, the behavior of the orbits of any point X from the area of ​​determination of the function F for all material integrations of parameter A is described. Of greatest interest is the case a> 1. The display here has three motionless and two ultimately motionless points, and X1 = 0 is attractive, x2 = 1/A - repulsive, and X3 = A 1/2 is neither attractive nor repulsive. In addition, the orbit of all points X of the segment [1, a] are two -period, with the exception of point X3. Double -period orbi are of great interest in studying and predicting the number of biological population, the mathematical model of which is built as a discrete dynamic system set by the display f. The study of dynamics F allows us to conclude that the most favorable conditions for the life and development of the population will be with the meaning of the parameter A> 1 and for any values ​​of the variable X from the interval (1/A; A2). In this case, the population, ultimately, will fluctuate between the two values ​​of X ′ and X ′ ′ (two -peridic orbit), which ensures its more bitness, as, for example, in the case of a population of Pacific salmon. L and T R A T R A 1. Al-shameriw.f.h., Mahiubm.a. SOME Dynamical Properties of the Family of Tent Maps // Int. J. of Math. Analysis. -2013.-V. 7, No. 29.-P. 1433-1449. K.F. Amozova, E.G. Ganenkova 49 2. Lindstromt. Dynamical Properties of Maps Fitted to Data in the Noise-Free Limit // J. Of Biological Dynamics. -2013.-V. 7, No 1.-P. 108-116 3. Sushko I., Gardini L. Degenerate Bifurcations and Border Collisions in Piecewise Smooth 1d and 2D MAPS // Int. J. of Bifurcation and Chaos. - 2010. - V. 20, No. 7. - P. 2045–2070. 4. Tramontanaf., Gardini L. and Westerhoff F. Intricate Asset Price Dynamics and One-Dimensional Discontinous Maps. - in: nonlinear economic dynamics. - New York: Nova Science Publishers, 2010. 5. Tramontanaf., Gardini L., Puut. Duopoly Games with Alternate Technologies // J. Econ. DYN. CONTR. -2008.-V. 33.-P. 250-265. K. F. AMOZOVA, E. G. Ganenkova Petrozavodsky State University, amokira@rambler.ru, g_ek@inbox.ru Criteria of one -legged and complete α -appropriation for p -harmonic functions The issue of one -leafness of analytical in D = {z ∈ C: | z | <1} of the functions, a large number of works are devoted, many criteria of one -leafy analytical functions are available. For harmonic functions, only a few criteria of one -legged is known. For P -Harmonic in D functions, only sufficient conditions of one -legged are known. The function F ∈ C2P (D), p ∈ N is called P -Harmonic (see [1]), if ∆PF = 0 V D, where ∆ is Laplace operator.