Applications of differential equations in the radio electronics are the main task of radio electronics is the synthesis and ANA LIZ chains. These research methods are not complete without races and calculations of the parameters of the chain. Research for the scope of the parameters of the chain that optimize data about the cessions. We are considering the oscillatory contour, its differential equation, the parameters arising in the solution of the differential equation, as well as some others about the steady chains. Transition processes in electrical circuits and methods of their calculation are also investigated: classic (differently differential equations), operator (using the operations calculus, the foundations of which are laid by O. Hevisaid), the method of variable state. The purpose of the study is to show the advantages and disadvantages of these methods, which allows you to expand the possibilities laid down in the program of technical universities, where two methods of solving LNDU are usually considered: the variation method (lagranha) and the method of picking on the right side. All this is linked in the presented message using computer methods of calculating chains. 86 E.K. Lipachev, A.S. MOKHOV L and T R A T R A 1. Bakalovv.p., Dmitrukv.F., Krukb.I. Fundamentals of the theory of chains. - M.: Radio and Communication, 2000. - 592 p. 2. Pontryaginl.s. Ordinary differential equations. -M.: Publishing House "Science", 1970.-332 p. 3. Ponomarevk.k. Drawing up and solving differential equations of engineering and technical problems. - M.: Uchpedgiz, 1962. - 184 p. 4. Popovv.p. Fundamentals of the theory of chains. - M.: Higher School, 2000. - 575 p. 5. Garaevk. G. about some problems of mathematical education in technical universities in modern conditions // Bulletin of Kazan. state. tech. University named after A.N. Tupole Va. -2000.-No. 1.-S. 78-79. E.K. Lipachev, A. S. Mokhov Kazan (Volzhsky) Federal University, Elipachev@gmail.com, alexphenomenonon2010@mail.ru Method for identifying duplicates in various digital collections of physical and mathematical documents of one of the tasks of digital collection management is the search for duplicate - documents with the same content. In the case of collections, including documents with texts in different languages, software tools are also needed to find all documents that are translating the same document. This task is closely related to the task of identifying borrowings in the scientific pool of liquidations (see, e.g., [1]). At the same time, it is most difficult to find in