Materials of the International School-Conference UDC 517.972.5 On assessments from the bottom of the stiffness of the steaming of the single-link area R.G. Salakhudinov1 1 rsalakhud@gmail.com; Kazan (Volga) Federal University, Institute of Mathematics and Mechanics. N.I. Lobachevsky in the work is given a brief overview of isoperimetric inequalities connecting the rigidity of twisting and the geometric characteristics of the region. A number of new statements are also given and old and new hypotheses are formulated. Keywords: worshiping rigidity, isoperimetric inequalities, Euclidean moments of the region relative to the border, extreme areas. The study of isperimetric inequalities containing various functioning of the region is one of the classical directions of mathematical physics. The history of the issue of assessment of the rigidity of torsion shows the predominance of inequalities that evaluate the rigidity of the twisting from above. These inequalities are associated with the names of Kulon, Koshi, Saint -Venan, Polya, Payne [1] and other scientists. Among these inequalities, we note the special role of the inequality of Saint -Venan - Polya P (G) ≤ A (G) 2 2π, which has important applications in the theory of twisting; Here G is a single -link area, p (G) - the rigidity of the twisting G and A (G) - the area G. Many known inequalities can be obtained using symmetrization methods. Note that despite a sufficiently large number of isoperimetric inequalities, including accurate ones, a fairly large number of open problems remain. Assessments of the rigidity of twisting from below are also associated with the inequalities belonging to Payne, Polya, SEGEE [2.3], etc. Note that with additional restrictions on the region, for example, convexity, there are not many results. The simplest and most beautiful assessment P (G) ≥ 1 2 A (G) ρ (G) 2 was proved in 1951. Polya and SEGEO; Here G is a convex area with a final area and ρ (G): = SUP X] the latest inequality. Theorem. Let is a convex area with limited hardness rigidity, then the inequality p (G) ≥ 2i2 (G)+ ρ (G) 2 6π, r.B. Salimov, A.Z. Suleimanov 317 where I2 (G) is the Euclidean moment of inertia of the region regarding its border. Equality is achieved in the event of a circle. More, if L (ρ (g) ̸ = 0, then the inequality turns into strict, here L (ρ (G)) is the length of the boundaries of the ∂g border. We will call the convex region G0 by compressing the convex area G if the G0 region can be obtained from G by cutting a rectangular fragment and connecting the remaining parts. In a slightly more complex way, the compression operation can be determined for non -fragile areas. Hypothesis. The approval of the theorem remains fair for the single -link possessions, and extreme areas in inequality are inconsistent. The work was carried out at the expense of the subsidy allocated to the Kazan Federal University to carry out a state assignment in the field of scientific activity (1.9773.2017/8.9), as well as with financial support of the RFFI (project 1541-02433 P.OLZHIE_A). Literature 1. Bandle C. ISOPERIMETRIC INEQUALITES AND Applications. -Boston-London-Melbourne: Pitman Advanced Publishing Program, 1980. 2. Pólya G., Szegö G. ISOPERIMETRIC INEQUALITIES In MATHEMATICAL PHYSICS. - Annals of Mathematical Studies. V. 27. Princeton: Princeton University Press, 1951. 3. Payne L.E. ISOPERIMETRIC INEQUALITES AND THEIR Applications // SIAM Review. - 1967. - V. 9, No. 3. - P. 453–488. On Lower Bounds of Torsional Rigidity of Simply Connected Domain R.G. Salakhudinov in this Paper We Give A Brief Survey of ISOPERIMEMETRIC INEQUALITIES ConNENecting The Torsional Rigidity and Geometric Characteristics of a Plane Domain. A Number of New Statements are Also Stated, Some Old and New Hypotheses Are Formulated. Keywords: ISOPERIMETRIC INEQUALITY, TORSIONAL RIGIDITY, EUCLIDEAN MOMENT OF DOMAIN with Respect to the Boundary, Extremal Domain. UDC 517.54 The solution of the heterogeneous regional problem of Riman on the beam with an endless index of the new method of R.B. Salimov1, A.Z. Suleimanov2 1 Salimov.rsb@gmail.com; Kazan State Architectural and Construction University 2 ayaz-suleymanov-91@mail.ru; The Kazan State Architectural and Civil Engineering University considers the regional task of Riemann with an endless index, when the regional condition of the problem is set on a positive real axis of the complex plane. To solve this problem, an approach based on elimination is used