МАТЕРИАЛЫ МЕЖДУНАРОДНОЙ ШКОЛЫ-КОНФЕРЕНЦИИ  UDC 517.54  INTEGRAL MEANS OF HARMONIC MAPPINGS  A.S. Kaliraj1  1 sairamkaliraj@gmail.com; Indian Statistical Institute, Chennai, India  In this talk, we are interested to explore more on locally univalent harmonic functions in the perspective of hp-spaces, which will be helpful in understanding the boundary behaviour and other important aspects of harmonic functions.  Keywords: integral means, locally univalent functions, Hardy spaces.  A function f analytic in the unit disk is said to belong to the Hardy space H p if the integral means  Mp (r, f ) = 1  2π  ˆ 2π 0  | f (r eiθ)|p dθ  is bounded in the unit disk. The finiteness of Mp (r, f ) and Mp (r, f ′) play a crucial role in the classical theory of univalent functions and its upper bound estimate of the following integrals  1  2π  ˆ 2π 0  | f (r eiθ)|p dθ and 1 2π  ˆ 2π 0  | f ′(r eiθ)|p dθ  got special attention when p =−2,1,2 as it has some applications in free boundary problems in fluid dynamics, and related with the growth of the Taylor coefficients of f . The harmonic Hardy space hp is the space of functions harmonic on the unit disk that obey the similar integral growth condition for the corresponding Hardy spaces H p of analytic functions. Until recently, only a few results were known in the literature on hp- spaces (See [1-3]). In this talk, we are interested to explore more on locally univalent harmonic functions in the perspective of hp- spaces, which will be helpful in understanding the boundary behaviour and other important aspects of harmonic functions.  This is a joint work with Prof. S. Ponnusamy.  References  1. Duren P. Harmonic mappings in the plane, Cambridge Tracts in Mathematics, V. 156. – Cambridge: Cambridge Univ. Press, 2004.  2. Nowak M. Integral means of univalent harmonic maps // Ann. Univ. Mariae Curie-Sklodowska, Sect. A. – 1996. – V. 16 (50). – P. 155–162.  3. Ponnusamy S., Sairam Kaliraj A. On the coefficient conjecture of Clunie and Sheil-Small on univalent harmonic mappings // Proc. Indian Acad. Sci. Math. Sci. – 2015. – V. 125 (3). – P. 277–290.