Materials of the International School-Conference of Theorem 2. Let the model σ ∈ satisfy the conditions: 1) α̃ (σ)> β (σ); 2) γ̃ (σ) <α̃ (σ) - β̃ (σ). Then in the studied model there is a vector of equilibrium prices p = (p1, ..., pn) such that Ci 1 <pi <ci 2, i = 1, n. The proof is based on the use of the theorem 1 and Lemm 1-3 of [1] to the display of demand and sentences in the studied model. The work was carried out with financial support from the Russian Federation (project No. 17-01-00849). Literature 1. Arutyunov A.V., Pavlova N.G., Shanin A.A. Equilibrium prices in one model of economic balance // Matem. modeling. - 2016. - T. 28. - No. 3. - C. 3–22. 2. Arutyunov A.V. The points of the coincidence of the two display // Function. Analysis and its adj. - 2014. - T. 48. - No. 1. - C. 89–93. Application of the Covering Mapping Theory to Study of Economic Models N.G. Pavlova We Study the Existence of Equilibrium Price Vector in a Concurrent Equilibrium Model. In this model, the demand function is obtained as the solution of the problem of maximizing the utility function under budget constraints, and the supply function is obtained as the solution of the problem of profit maximization given transaction losses on the technology set. We Establish Sufficient Conditions for the Existence of Equilibrium Price Vector. These Conditions are consequences of General Existence Theorems for Coincidence Points of a Lipschitz and Covering Mapping. Keywords: Economic Equilibrium, Transaction Costs, Coincidence Points. UDC 517.956 Theory of some redefined systems of differential equations in private derivatives of the first and second orders of R. PIROV1 1 pirov _60@mail.ru; The Tajik State Pedagogical University named after S. Aini examines the quasilinear and nonlinear systems of differential equations in private derivatives of the first and second orders with one and two unknown functions. Explicit conditions have been obtained, ensuring unambiguous resolving tasks with initial data. Keywords: redundant systems, conditions of compatibility, variety of solutions, cross -differentiation operations. 1. In recent decades, regular systems of the species ∂uk ∂x j = f j (x1, x2, x3, ..., xn; u1, u2, u3, ...., k = 1, m, have been widely studied. J = 1, N, (1) R. Pirov 291 in which derivatives are set from all functions by variables. Such systems are called systems in complete differentials. If all the equalities of cross differentiation are performed identically with respect to the desired functions, then the system is called complete. The variety of solutions containing nothing more than the final number of arbitrary permanent ones is called trivial. For the existence of the solutions of the system (1), it is necessary and enough for it to be complete. 2. Consider the quasi -line system [2] ux, uy, vx = f i (x, y; u, v), i = 1.2.3. (2) If all F I ∈C 1, then performing the transaction of cross differentiation and assuming f 1V ̸ = 0, we get VY = F 4 (X, Y; U, V). (3) Thus, we come to the system of four equations, in a form that coincides with the system in complete differentials. The next operation of cross differentiation of the 3rd equation from (2) with equation (3) leads to a functional ratio H (x, y; u, v) = 0. (4) if (4) is performed identically by U, v, then ( 2), (3) - a completely integrated system in complete differentials, and for it a fairly known theorem of existence and uniqueness of the task with initial data [u] 0 = c1, [v] 0 = c2 (5) (zero index here and the index Everywhere below we denote the value of functions at the starting point (x0, y0)). In this case, the possibility of resolution (4) in the form V = ψ (x, y, u), ψ ∈C 1. Then this ratio converts the system (2), (3) to the system in complete differentials for u = u (3) x, y), and the last two equations will turn into conditions of complete integrability. These results make up the content of the theorem about the existence and uniqueness of the task [u] 0 = c1. (6) Further studies belong to the cases of system (2) when the first equation contains only one desired function U. In this situation, cross differentiation of the first two equations after substitution V X from the third immediately leads to a functional ratio H (x, y; u, v) = 0, (7) and, if we consider the first two equations, then one can reproduce the third of them the equation. There are two different surveyors: 1) when (7) is performed identically according to U, V and 2) when (7) is performed not identical. In case of 1) we come to the system of two equations, where the second equation allows you to express the second function through the first, after which there will be only one equation. Thus, it turns out that in this case, for the system (2), it is necessary to set the task [u] x = x0 = onic (y), ∗ ∈C 1, (8) 292 materials of the international school-conference that will have a solution and, moreover, the only . 3. In the monograph [2], systems of equations in private derivatives of the first order with one unknown function were considered. In [4] and [5] some quasilinear systems of the second