Some functionals in the configuration space associated with the specifications of random fields B.S. Nakhatyan1, L.A. Khachatryan2 1 nahapet@instamath.sci.am; Institute of Mathematics of the National Academy of Sciences Armenia 2 linda@instamath.sci.am; The Institute of Mathematics of the National Academy of Sciences of Armenia, the Russian -Armenian (Slavic) University in the report shows that the task of describing random fields in terms of the specification subsystem, consisting only of mono distributions of probabilities (the problem of Dobrushin), is reduced to the continuation of some functionality determined by the configuration pairs , differing only at one point, for the entire space of the pairs of configurations. Such a continuation is possible when fulfilling certain conditions of symmetry of functionality. Key words: specification, random fields. The fundamental role in the description of random fields is introduced by R. Dobrushin ([1,2]) the concept of specification - the coordinated system of final distributions with endless boundary conditions. In these works, conditions were formulated under which there is a random field with a given specification, as well as the conditions under which it is the only one. At the same time, there is a certain disharmony in the uniformity of the random field obtained by the Dobrushin conditions, compatible with the specified specification (they say that the random field is compatible with the specification Q if its conditional distribution coincides with Q). The fact is that the condition of the uniqueness of the random field imposes restrictions only on the subsystem of mono -point distributions of the specification, while the condition of existence imposes restrictions on all its elements. In this regard, Dobrushin was expressed a hypothesis that the description of random fields could be given in terms of the specification subsystem, consisting only of mono -pointing distributions of probabilities (the problem of Dobrushin). This problem was solved in the works of [3, 4] S. Dasyan and B. Nakhapetyan, where the necessary and sufficient conditions (consistency conditions) were found, under which the system of mono distributions is a subsystem of some specifications. This work shows that the problem of Dobrushin comes down to the issue of continuing some functionality, determined on the pairs of configurations that differ only at one point, for the entire space of the pairs of configurations ([5, 6]). The specified approach can be applied in the study of the properties of random fields (poor dependence of the component, unity), as well as to some tasks of mathematical statistical physics, in particular, to the description of the Gibbs of random fields. We introduce the necessary designations. Let X ⊂ R-some non-empty final set, ZD is a d-dimensional integer grate (a set of D-dimensional centuries 272 Materials of the International School-Conference of Tor with integer components), D ≥ 1, and W = {V ⊂ZD, | V | <Imes} - a lot of the final subservient Zh. When there are a single -pointed sets {t}, t ∈ ZD, in some cases, curly brackets will fall. Further, we denote through x s = {(xt, t ∈ S), xt ∈ X, many configurations on s, s ⊂ zd, i.e. The totality of all functions determined on S with values ​​in X. For any s, t ⊂ zd, such as s∩t = ffl, and any x ∈ X S and Y ∈ X T through x y will denote the concatenation X and Y, i.e. Such a configuration on S ∪T, which coincides with X on S and from Y to T. For s ⊂ t, x ∈ X t, recording Xs means narrowing of the configuration X on S. The set of functions q = {q x̄v, x̄ ∈ XZ d \ v, v ∈W} in the configure space we will call the specification if: 1. for each for each V ∈W and configurations X̄ ∈ XZD \ V the set {Q X̄V (X), X ∈ X V} is the distribution of probability on X V (with endless boundary conditions X̄), i.e. q x̄v (x) ≥ 0 for all x ∈ X v and ∑ xicle v q x̄v (x) = 1; 2. Elements Q satisfy the confirming conditions of consistency: for all i ⊂v ∈W, x ∈ X I, Y ∈ X V \ I and X̄ ∈ XZD \ V Q X̄V (X Y) = Q X̄ Y I (X) ∑ Zorn I Q x̄v (z y). According to a given specification, Q is unambiguously determined by its single -point subsystem Q (1) = {q x̄t, x̄ ∈ XZ d \ {t}, t ∈ZD} ⊂ Q. Resolution of the reverse problem - restoration of the specification Q for its single -point subsystem Q (1) - it was obtained in the work [4], which indicates the necessary and sufficient conditions (conditions of consistency) under which the system of single -pointing distributions Q (1) is the subsystem of some specification Q, and the formula for restoring the elements of Q specification by elements Q (1) is also given. . Theorem 1. Let q (1) = {q x̄t, x̄ ∈ XZ d \ t, t ∈Zd} - a set of monotine conditional distributions of probabilities with endless boundary conditions. In order for the totality ofq (1) to be a subsystem of some specifications, it is necessary and enough to ensure that the following conditions of consistency are fulfilled: for any t, s ∈Zd, x, u ∈ X {t}, y, v ∈ X {s} and x̄ ∈ Xzd \ {t, s} q x̄ y t (x) q x̄x s (v) q x̄v t (u) q x̄u s (y) = q x̄xs (y) q x̄ y t (u) q x̄u s (v) X̄v