Materials of the KNOWN ONES IS Shown International Conference. Possible Ways of Generalizing of the Method to Equations with A Large Number of Independent Variables are Indicated. Keywords: Generalized Powers of Bers, Generalized Constant, Differential Equations, Laplace Equation. UDC 517.98 On some results and tasks from binary analysis B.I. Golubov1 1 Golubov@mail.mipt.ru; The Moscow Physics and Technical Institute (State University) will present a review of the results related to binary analysis, and some tasks are formulated. Keywords: orthonomated systems, binary analysis, rows of Fouriyuolsh, Walsha transformation. In 1923, J. L. Walsh built an orthonomated system of functions, called the Walsha system. The functions of this system are stepped on a segment [0.1] and each of them accepts only two values, namely 1 and 1 on the intervals, the ends of which are binary-storage numbers. In 1950, J. Fine determined the transformation of the Walsh functions integrated by the Lebug on the semi -shaft [0,+urb). The ranks of Fury-Uolsha and the transformation of Walsha are widely used in various fields of mathematics, physics and other sciences. Currently, the theory of the ranks of the fury-uolsha and the transformation of the Walsha, which form the basis of the so-called binary harmonic analysis, have been greatly developed (see [1], [2] and [3]). Since the late 60s of the last century, the so-called binary analysis began to develop. Just as the basis of mathematical analysis is differentiation and integration, the basis of binary analysis is binary differentiation and integration. The determination of a point binary derivative first appeared in 1967 in the work of J. E. Gibbs [4]. Since then, it has been generalized and changed in various directions. The bibliography for the theory and applications of binary derivatives and the related binary integrals currently contains more than 200 items, including two monographs [5], [6]. The results of the development of binary analysis are summed up in two recently released monographs [7], [8]. In the second of them, some unresolved tasks are formulated. Some of these tasks will be formulated in the report. Literature 1. Golubov B.I., Efimov A.V., Skvortsov V.A. Rows and transformations of Walsha. Theory and application. - M.: Nauka, 1987. - 344 p. 2. Golubov B., Efimov A., Skvortsov V. Walsh Series and Transforms. Theory and Applications. -Dordrechtboston-London: Kluwer Academic Publishers, 1991.-368 p. 3. Schipp F., Wade W.R., Simon P. Walsh Series. An Introduction to Dyadic Harmonic Analysis. - Budapest: Akademiai Kiado, 1990. - 560 p. D.V. Gorbachev, V.I. Ivanov, O.I. Smirnov 113 4. Gibbs G.E. Walsh Spectrometry, A Form of Spectral Analysis Well Suited to Binary Digital Computation. - NPL des Rep. Teddington: National Phys. Lab., 1967. - 24 p. 5. Wagner J.H. Ein Differential-und Integralkulkül in Der Walsh-Fourier-Analysis Mit Anwendungen. - Köln, Opladen: Westdeutscher Verlag, 1974. 6. Golubov B.I. Elements of binary analysis. 2nd ed. - URSS, 2007. - 203 p. 7. Stankovic R.S., Butzer P.L., Schipp F., Wade W.R., Su W., Endow Y., Fridli S., Golubov B.I.i., Pichler F. Dyadic Walsh-SCHITITS-BUTITICOTITICE DITZER DITZER DITZER DITZER DITZHETIC V. 1. Foundations. - Paris: Atlantis Press / Springer, 2015. - 455 p. 8. Stankovic R.S., Butzer P.L., Schipp F., Wade W.R., Su W., Endow Y., Fridli S., Golubov B.I.i., Pichler F. Dyadic Walsh-SCHITITS-BUTITICOTITICE DITZER DITZER DITZER DITZER DITZHETIC Vol. 2. Extensions and Generalizations // Paris: Atlantis Press / Springer, 2015. - 360 p. On Some Results and Problems from Diadic Analysis B.I. Golubov The Report Will Provide An OverView of the Results Related to Dyadic Analysis, SOME PROBLESS ARE FORMULATED. Keywords: Orthonormal Systems, Dyadic Analysis, Fourier-Walsh Series, Walsh Transform. UDC 517.51 ​​some extreme tasks for converting Fourier on Hyperboloid D.V. Gorbachev1, V.I. Ivanov2, O.I. Smirnov3 1 dvgmail@mail.ru; Tula State University 2 Ivaleryi@mail.ru; Tula State University 3 So.2@mail.ru; Tula State University studies the extreme tasks of Turan, Feier, Delsart, Logan and Boman to convert Fourier into hyperboloid -1 or in the space of Lobachevsky. Using the method of averaging in the sphere, these tasks are reduced to similar tasks for transforming Jacobi into a half -rejection. To solve them, the quadructure formulas of Gauss and Markov are used on a half -rejection for entire functions of the exponential type according to the zero functions of Jacobi. Keywords: hyperboloid, Lobachevsky’s space, Fourier transformation, extreme tasks of Turan, Feier, Delsart, Logan, Boman, quadructure formulas of Gauss and Markov for entire functions of the exponential type. The main facts of harmonic analysis on hyperboloid or in the space of Lobachevsky can be found in [1, ch. nine]. Let d ∈ N, D ≥ 3, RD-1-actual (D-1) -er