Materials of the International School-Conference of UDC 517.9: 517.28: 51-7: 53.09 On some possibilities of mathematical modeling of thermal mass phenomena in homogeneous and multilayer semiconductor structures of M.A. Stepovich1, E.V. Seregin2, V.V. Kalmanovich3 1 M.Stepovich@rambler.ru; Kaluga State University named after K.E. Tsiolkovsky 2 evfs@yandex.ru; Moscow State Technical University. N.E. Bauman (National Research University), Kaluga branch 3 v572264@yandex.ru; Kaluga State University named after K.E. Tsiolkovsky describes the main mathematical models and nodal moments of their use for modeling the processes of the heat -mass -transmission due to kilo -voluntary electrons in semiconductor materials. Differential equations of thermal power are recorded for one -dimensional processes that are implemented by using and three -dimensional processes and three -dimensional processes implemented using focused electronic bundles - electronic probes. The possibility of using a three -dimensional model for modeling heat distribution in semiconductor targets with low energies of the electronic probe was assessed. Some possibilities of using the proposed approaches for the mathematical modeling of the phenomena of thermal mass in multilayer structures are considered. Keywords: mathematical modeling, differential equations, electronic bunches, semiconductors, the phenomena of thermal mass, multilayer structures. In the semiconductor material science during local studies of materials using focused beams of electrons - electronic probes, the most commonly (with the exception of X -ray -spectral microanalysis) as an informative record is related to the generation and diffusion in the semiconductor target of non -alien charges (NNZ) and/or records are recorded Signals whose characteristics are significantly dependent on the distribution of NNZ (for example, cathodoluminescence). The characteristics of an informative signal can also have a significant effect can have a microbe temperature in which this signal is generated [1.2]; When using mathematical modeling, this leads to the need to solve the equations of thermal power. In this work, some possibilities of mathematical modeling of the phenomena of thermal mass -transmission in homogeneous and multilayer planar structures are considered. For one -dimensional NNZ diffusion into a semiconductor, which is realized when using a light or wide electronic beam, the diffusion equation has the following view: 1) for the so -called. Models of the collective movement of NNZ (see [3, 4]) D D 2∆p (Z) / D Z2 - ∆P (Z) / τ = −ρ (Z) (1) M.A. Stepovich, E.V. Seregina, V.V. Kalmanovich 345 with boundary conditions d dier (z = 0) / d z = vs∆p (z = 0), ∆p (φ) = 0. (2) D, τ, vs - constant for a homogeneous semiconductor of the size: diffusion length, lifestyle and the speed of their superficial recombination of NNZ, respectively. This model has been used in electron -zonde technologies for a long time, but its use is limited to homogeneous semiconductors. We also note that this mathematical model made it possible to conduct a statistical analysis of the collective movement of the NNZ and assess the effect of the scatter in the electrophysical parameters of the semiconductor on the distribution of NNZ [5,6], which may be of interest in modeling semiconductor devices; 2) for the so -called. models of independent sources (see [12–14]) D D 2∆p (Z, Z0) / D Z2 - ∆P (Z, Z0) / τ = −ρ (Z) Δ (Z - Z0) (3) with boundary conditions d d than (z = 0, z0) / d z = vs∆p (z = 0, z0), ∆P (φ, z0) = 0, (4) at the same time the desired distribution of NNZ after their diffusion in The homogeneous semiconductor ∆P (Z) is the integration of ∆P (Z, Z0) by Z0 from zero to infinity, and for multi -layer targets, integration is carried out within the layers, taking into account the continuity ∆P (Z, Z0) on their border. The task (1) and (2) allows you to find the distribution of NNZ in a homogeneous semiconductor, and, using (3), (4), the task of finding the distribution of NNZ in the planar two- [7.8] and three -layer [9–11 ] semiconductor structures for the case of constancy D, τ and VS inside each layer. When using an electronic probe, trimmer NNZ diffusion (heat) is realized. The corresponding equation for the NNZ has the form: A2DIV [grad∆p (m)] −∆p (m) = −ρ (m) (5) with boundary conditions d dony (x, y, z = 0) / d z = vs∆p (x, y, z = 0), ∆p (φ, φ, و) = 0. Equation (5) describes the distribution of particles due to diffusion or the distribution of the target temperature as a result of thermal conductivity. Here the function is ∆P (m) - the distribution of a diffusive substance (heat); M (x, y, z) - an arbitrary point of the target; x, y ∈ (− least, inous), z ∈ [0, urb), a = const. In the equation (5), the function ρ (M) describes the sources of matter (heat) similar to the right parts of equations (1) and (3). In this work, as a source of NNZ and/or heat, a model based on the possibility of a separate number is used