Materials of the International School-Conference C lus R ED (S) → C ∗ R ED (R+) → 0 is accurate. Consequence. Algebra C ∗ R ED (S), where S = {A ∈ R: A ≥ 1} ∪ {0}, has only two invariant ideals - switching and ideal of compact operators. Literature 1. Grigoryan S.A., Salakhutdinov A.F. C ∗ —algebra, generated by half -groups with a reduction // Sib. matte. Journal. - 2010. - T. 50. - No. 1. - P. 16-25. 2. Aukhadiev M.A., Grigoryan S.A., Lipacheva E. V. Operator approach to quantizing half groups // Matem. Sat. - 2014. - T. 205. - No. 3. - P. 15-40. On a class of Graded Ideals of Semigroup C ∗ —ALGEBRAS E.V. Lipacheva, T.A. Grigoryan The Article Continues The Previusly Initiated Research of the C ∗ -algebra Generated by the Left Regular Representation of an Abelian Semigroup. We Study Invariant Ideals of this C ∗ -Algebra Invariant with Respect to the Representation of a Compact Group G in the Automorphism of this Algebra. It is as that invariance of the ideal is etvevent to the fact that this Ideal is a graden C ∗ -ALGEBRA. IS Studied a Class of Graded Primitive Ideals Generated by A Single Projector. Keywords: C ∗ –ALGEBRA, GRADED C ∗ —ALGEBRA, SEMIGROUP, Left Regular Representation, Invariant Subspaces, Representation in the Automorphism, Invariant Idaal, Commetator IDEAL. UDC 517.956 The dimension of the decisions of the Schrödinger equation and variation of the potential A.G. Losev1 1 allosev59@gmail.com; Volgograd State University is devoted to the study of decisions of the stationary equation of Schrödinger ∆U - Q (X) U = 0 on non -membranous Riman varieties. Namely, the issue of changing the dimension of the space of limited solutions of this equation with various variations of potential Q (X) is considered. In particular, it is shown that the reduction in the potential Q (X) does not reduce the dimension of the space of limited solutions of this equation. Keywords: a stationary equation of Schrödinger, Lyuville type theorems, uncomplete rimanes of diversity, massive sets. This work is devoted to the study of limited solutions to the stationary equation of Schrödinger LU = ∆U –Q (x) u = 0 (1) A.G. Losev 233 on an arbitrary uncomproped riman variety m. Here q (x) is a continuous non -negative function. Further, the solutions of equation (1) will be called Q-Harmonic functions. In the theory of elliptical equations on non -membranous Riman varieties, the following settings of the tasks are the most popular: 1) Find the conditions for the execution of Lyuville type about the triviality of the classes of decisions of the considered equation; 2) Find the conditions for unambiguous resolution of the regional tasks. Let us dwell on the first task. Traditionally, the following approach to LiUville typeorems is carried out. Let a class of functions a and the elliptical operating -adoP L. will say that on m (a, l) Liuvillevo property is set, if any cut of the finish of LU = 0, which is most advanced by the functional class A, is an identical constant. Note that in the case when Q (X) is non -trivial, the non -legal constant is not a solution to the equation (1), and Liullevovo is formulated for it somewhat differently. Namely, they say that on M Lyuvillevo is a property for limited solutions of equation (1) if any such solution is an identical zero. Recently, there has been a tendency to a more general approach to Liwill type theorems. In a number of studies, the dimensions of various spaces of solutions of linear equations of an elliptical type are evaluated. In particular, in [1], an accurate assessment of the dimensions of the spaces of limited harmonic functions on uncompromial riman varieties in terms of massive sets was proved. A similar result for the solutions of the stationary equation of Schrödinger (1) has recently been proved in [2]. Let us dwell on the concept of massive sets. Let M - a smooth coherent uncompert rimano diversity. The continuous function U, determined on the open set ω⊂ M, will be called QSUBARMONIC if for any area g B p and q-harmonic function v ∈C (G), u | ∂g = v | ∂g, performed U ≤ V G G G G G. . Following [3], the open our own subset ω ⊂ m will be called qmassive if there is a non-trivial Q-Subharmonic function on m such that U = 0 on m \ ω and 0 ≤ u ≤ 1 (in the case of q ≡ 0, many ω is called massive ). This function U will be called the internal potential of the set ω. The properties of Q-massive sets are quite similar to the properties of massive sets, set out in detail in [1] and [3]. We formulate some of them. Lemma. Let ω1 ⊂ω2 - open proper subset m. Then 1) if ω1-Q-massively, then ω2-Q-massive; 2) if ω2-q-massive and ω2 \ ω1-compact, then ω1-q-massive. The main result [2] is the following statement. Теорема 1. Пусть q(x) – нетривиальная, неотрицательная на M функция, аm ≥ 1 – натуральное число. Следующие утверждения эквивалентны:    234 МАТЕРИ