Materials of the International School-Conference of UDC 517.984 Inequality of the type of Segeo for derivatives of rational functions on the segment T.S. Mardvilko1, A.A. Pekarsky2 1 mardvilko@mail.ru; Belarusian State University 2 Pekarskii@gmail.com; The Belarusian State University in the work examines the conjugated fluxes on the segment and discussed by us the inequality of the type of Segeo for rational functions. The authors came to the need to obtain such inequality, studying the relationship between the velocities of the best uniform approaches of the function through rational functions and a piece of bowl. Keywords: algebraic polynomas, rational functions, Bernstein inequality, sees, conjugated functions, the best uniform polynomial approaches, the best uniform rational approximations, the best uniform pieces of polynomial approximation. Inequality S.N. Bernstein and G. SEGEE for derivatives of trigonometric polynomials, as well as their generalization (see, for example, [1]) for trigonometric rational functions, play an important role in the theory of approximation of functions. In [1], Bernstein type inequality for derivatives of rational functions on the segment is also given. In connection with the study of the ratios between the best uniform rational and piece-polynomial approaches of the functions, in [2], an inequality of the type of Segeo was obtained for derivatives of rational functions on the segment. To formulate this inequality, we introduce the necessary designations. Through c (i) we denote the banahov’s space of continuous functions defined on the segment I: = [−1,1] and endowed with the standard Max-Norm ∥ · ∥c (i), through lp (i), 0 <p <mm,-- The space of the Lebble of measurable functions G on I such as | G | P is summarized on I. Space LP (I) is quasibanachov relative to quasinorm ∥g∥LP (i): = (ˆ i | g (x) | p d x) 1/p. Let the function G (t) is determined on the segment I and integrated on it with a weighing 1/ p 1 - t 2. Then ĝ - the function associated with G is determined as follows ĝ (x) = p 1–x2 π ˆ i g ( t) t −x · d tp 1 - t 2, x ∈ I, where the singular integral is understood in the sense of the main value of the cat. Theorem 1 [2]. Let R - a rational function of the degree n, n ∈N, which does not have in Luces on I. Then for s ∈N the inequality ∥r̂ (s) ∥l1/s (i) ≤ cns∥r∥c (i), N.V. Martemyanova 253 where C> 0 and depends only on s. We also note the work [3], in which the inequality of the type of Segeo for al -hebraic polynoma is obtained. This inequality is used to study the connection between the best uniform polynomial approaches of the conjugated functions set on the segment. The work was carried out as part of the GPNI of the National Academy of Sciences of Belarus “Conversation”. Literature 1. Pekarskii A. A.Approximation by Rational Functions with Free Poles // East J. On Approxim. - 2007. - V. 13. - No. 3. - P. 227–319. 2. Mardvilko T. S., Pekarsky A. A. Combined functions on the segment and their connection with uniform rational and piece-polynomial approximations // Matem. notes. - 2016. - T. 99. - No. 2. - P. 248–261. 3. Misyuk V. R., Pekarsky A. A. Combined functions on the segment and the relationship for their best uniform polynomial approximations // Izv. Nan Belarus. Ser. physical. sciences. - 2015. - No. 2. - P. 37–40. A Szegö-Type inquality for The Derivatives of the Conjugat Rational Function On a Segment T.S. Mardvilko, A.A. Pekarskii in the Present Paper, The Conjugat Function is Consedered. A Szegö-Type inquality for The Derivatives of the Conjugat Rational Function On a Closed Interval Was Obtained. This inquality Was Proved how We Investigated the Relationship Between The Rate of the Best Uniform Rational Approximations of a Function and The Best Unear of Keywords: algebraic polinomials, rational functions, Bernstein-type inequality, Szegö-type inequality, the conjugate functions, the best uniform polinomial approximations, the best uniform rational approximations, the best piecewise polinomials approximations. UDC 517.95 Construction of a general solution to an ordinary differential equation of the second order with a variable familiar coefficient of N.V. Martemyanova1 1 ninamartem@yandex.ru; Samara State Social and Pedagogical University in the article built a general solution to an ordinary differential equation of the second order with a variable familiar coefficient arising when solving reverse tasks for degenerating equations of a mixed type with a spectral method. Some properties of a general solution are established, which is determined through the functions of Bessel. Keywords: an ordinary differential equation with alternating