Materials of the International School-Conference 3. Moiseev N. N. Asymptotic methods of nonlinear mechanics. - M.: Nauka, 1981. - 400 p. 4. Grebenikov E. A. Method of averaging in applied tasks. - M.: Nauka, 1986. - 256 p. On Regimes of Chaetic Oscillations for a Solution of the Duffing Equation A.F. Kurin  In this paper, the existence of regimes of chaotic oscillations for a solution of the inhomogeneous Duffing equation, without attenuation, with a small nonlinearity and a small amplitude of the external periodic force, is proved. A Relation Connecting the Parameters of the Equation Is Derved, Which Ensure the Tuning of the Duffing Oscillantor to the Consedered Regimes. Keywords: Averaging Method, Oscillator, Bifurcations. UDC 512.579 On one class of graduated ideals of semi -group C ∗ -algebr E.V. Lipacheva1, T.A. Grigoryan2 1 Elipacheva@gmail.com; Kazan State Energy University 2 tkhorkova@gmail.com; The Kazan State Energy University in the article continues the previously begun study C ∗ -albras generated by the left regular representation of the abele -group. The ideals of this C ∗ algebra are studied, invariant regarding the presentation of the compact group G in the group of autorphisms of the algebra in question. It is proved that the invariance of the ideal is equivalent to the fact that it is a graduated with ∗ -algebra. Separately, a class of primitive graduated ideals generated by one projector is studied. Key words: C ∗ -albur, graduated with ∗ ∗ algebra, half -group, left regular representation, invariant subspace, representation in the group of automorphisms, invariant ideal, switching ideal. In the work [1.2], the study of C ∗ -albras generated by the regular isometric representation of the abele -group S, the so -called grunted half -group C ∗ -Algebra C ∗ R ED (S), which can be considered as a natural generalization of the Greenhouse algebra. In particular, it has been proved that C ∗ - algebra C ∗ R ED (S) is a graduated C ∗ -algebra, some properties of this algebra were described, the study of its ideals and automorphisms was started. In this work, the study of the ideals C ∗ -albras C ∗ R ED (S), the YAMITTIA DEARED TO THE Presentation of the Compact Group G in the AUT Automorphism group (C ∗ R ED (S)). Let S - Additative Abeleva half -group with a reduction containing a neutral element. Consider the Hilbert space L 2 (s) = {f: s → c: ∑ auss | f (a) | 2 <urb} E.V. Lipacheva, T.A. Grigoryan 229 with a scalar work (f, g) = ∑ a∈S F (A) G (A). The family of functions {ea} a∈S, EA (b) = ΔA, B forms an orthonomated basis in L 2 (S). Consider the presentation π: s → b (l 2 (s)) half group S in the algebra of operators on L 2 (s), specified as follows: π (a) eb = ea+b. Obviously, the π (a) operator is an isometry and the representation of π is an isometric representation of the half -group S. We will denote the operators π (a) via Ta, a ∈ S. The representation of π is called the left regular representation of the semi -group S. C ∗ -albubra, generated by the left regular representation The half -group S is indicated by C ∗ R ED (S) and is called the given semi -group C ∗ -algebra of the half -group S. Operators of the species TA and T ∗ A are called elementary monomas, and the final work of elementary monomas is called monomas. Let the γ is a group of gross, generated by a half -group S., using a group of a grotten, the concept of a monoma index is introduced as follows. In the work [2] it was shown that if V is a mono from s ∗ r eD, then such elements are A, b ∈ S, which lim - - → corn t ∗ C v tc = t ∗ a tb, where lim- - → c∈S - the limit in the direction S. Then the monoma v index is called the element b −a group γ. In this case, the designation indv = b —a is used. The concept of the monoma index allows you to build the graduation of the algebra C ∗ R ED (S) by the group γ. We denote through AC a closed linear subspace in C ∗ R ED (S), generated by linear combinations of the index monomas C, C ∈ γ. Then C ∗ -albur c ∗ r ed (s) is γ -graded C ∗ -albro [2] c ∗ r ed (s) = ⊕ cus, where ac = t ∗ b a0ta for c = a –b , A0 - switching subhalhgebra, and each element a ∈C ∗ R ED (S) is represented in the form of a formal series: a ≃ ∑ corn, where ac ∈Ac. Let K - the switching ideal of algebra C ∗ R ED (S), i.e. The ideal generated by switches AB −b A, where A, B ∈ C ∗ R ED (S). The ideal K is also γ -graded C ∗ -albro. Since C ∗ R ED (S) is γ -graded C ∗ -albro, there is a representation of τ: g → AUT (C ∗ R ED (S)) that the AC subspaces are invariant regarding this representation: AC = {A ∈C ∗r ed (S) : τ(g )(A) =χc (g )A, g ∈G}. The ideal J algebra C ∗ R ED (S) is called invariant if it is invariant regarding the representation τ: g → AUT (C ∗ R ED (S)), that is, τ (G) (J) = J for any G ∈G. Lemma 1. Let J -Eide Algebryc ∗ R ED (S). Then the following conditions are equivalent: 1. J - invariant ideal; 230 Materials of the International School-Conference 2. J is γ-graded C ∗-alge