The Vector Boundary Value Riemann Problem on Riemann Surface V.I. Shcherbakov  We show that a S-Dini test of pointwise convergence of the Fourier series for generalizedHaar's systems on the modified segment [0, 1], which is always better (for unbounded sequence {pn}∞n=1) than analogous V-Dini (Dini-Vilenkin) Test, Will Be Incorrect, If Want to Extend Its to the Zero-Dimesional Abelian Groups Because The Convergence on the Groups May Depend of the Choice of Basic Elements. Keywords: Zero-DimenSional Group, Modified Segment [0, 1], Generalized Haar’s Systems, V-Dinivilenkin Test), S-Dini Test. UDC 519 On the transformations of Lyapunov Z.Ya. Yakupov1 1 zymat@bk.ru; Kazan National Research Technical University named after A.N. Tupoleva-KAI (KNITO-KAI) of the group of transformations are real objects of the world around them, the presence and physical structure of which can be judged by their influence on our ideas. These include, for example, ideas about the uniformity and isotropic of space and time, about the dynamic similarity of phenomena, about Galileeva and Lorents invariation, etc. keywords: groups of transformations, ordinary differential equations, qualitative theory, leading, comparison methods. Introduction. Since the mathematical models of many phenomena of the real world are formulated in the form of differential equations, it becomes clear that one of the most significant applications of group theory is their use in the general theory of differential equations [1]- [4]. Priority in the field of applying group methods to study differential equations belongs to Norwegian mathematics S. Lee. Initially, S. Lee was the creation of the theory of integrating ordinary differential equations on an equally reliable group basis as N. Abel was created to solve algebraic equations. In this regard, S. Lee formulated and studied the fundamental concept of the group (group) allowed by this system of differential equations. Currently, the mathematical direction, the subject of which is the joint consideration of the transformations groups and allowing these groups of differential equations, is called a group analysis of differential equations. Methods. The circle of tasks of group analysis of differential equations of REN OSH and is an area of ​​application of the theory and algorithms of this analysis [5]- [9]. The initial prerequisites for the use of the theoretical and group approach to the study of differential equations, in particular ordinary ones, are as follows [10]. 414 Materials of the International School-Conference, the application of classical research methods to integrating ordinary differential equations is not effective enough for solving a number of modern applied problems: modeling problems, numerical integration of equations that have an un UNITITION SOLUTION, some reverse tasks and the like studies. In the theory of equations with private derivatives, group methods have established themselves well, based, first of all, on the classical theory (continuous) groups. In the case of ordinary differential equations, the use of classical group analysis also has some tangible advantage over the use of traditional methods. But specifically continuous groups of transformations were ineffective for solving ordinary differential equations. The latter circumstance is due to the fact that the task of finding a continuous group of transformations for an ordinary differential equation is equivalent to the complexity of the task of its integration. Therefore, in the study of ordinary differential equations, the search for discrete or understood groups of transformations closed to the considered class of equations is put forward [2]-[4]. Such a direction of research made it possible to find a large number of new integrated equations that have not yet been able to intervene with classical methods [8]- [9]. Also, the theory of groups generally sheds light on a number of approaches widely used in practice and the results of integrating specific types of equations and allows you to better consider internal connections between different methods [5]-[7]. Conclusion. Thus, one of the main ideas of the theoretical-group under the move to the theory of ordinary differential equations is as follows. A certain group of transformations (in particular, any group of Lyapunov transformations) at specific mathematical objects (equations) is considered. This group of transformations on a given many objects induces the ratio of equivalence. Thus, a factor is formed, and all equivalent objects fall into one class of equivalence. As a result of such factorization, the studied equation will be equivalent to a certain equation taken as the simplest representative of this class of equivalence. Finding this simplest equation