Materials of the International School-Conference of all functions F ∈ H̃0, for which the Gakhov equation f ′ ′ (ζ)/ f ′ (ζ) = 2ζ̄/ (1- | ζ | 2) has the only zero root, which is the maximum of a hyperbolic derivative (conformal radius) h f (ζ) = (1 - | ζ | 2) | F ′ (ζ) | functions f [3]. Theorem. Function f ∈ H̃0 is fair, satisfying the conditions ≤ | F ′ (ζ) | ≤ m and | arg f ′ (ζ) | ≤ α with ζ ∈D, belongs to the class of Gakhov G̃1 if Q (1+λ) K (λ) ≤ 1, where Q = ln (m/m), k (λ) = ´ 1 0 [(1-u2) (1–λ2u2)] - 1/2DU, and the value is λ = λ (q, α), 0 ≤λ≤ 1, is determined from the equation 4αk (λ) = qk (p 1–λ2). The report discusses a number of aspects related to this theorem and its proof. Literature 1. Avhadiev F. G., Aksentiev L. A. The dosteen conditions of one -leafness of analytical functions // Reports of the Academy of Sciences of the USSR - 1971. - T. 198. - No. 4. - C. 743–746. 2. Aksentiev L.A., Khokhlov Yu. E., Shirokova E. A. On the uniqueness of the solution of the external reverse edge problem // Mat. notes. - 1978. - T. 24. - No. 3. - C. 319–330. 3. Kazantsev A.V. Four sketches on the topic of F. D. Gakhov. -Yoshkar-Ola: Publishing House of Margu, 2012.-64 c. On sOME CONDITIONS FOR THE UNIQUENESS OF A ROOT OF GAKHOV’S EQUATION S.A. Gubaydullina, A.V. Kazantsev We Discuss a New Condition for the Unique of the Gakhov Equation. Keywords: Gakhov’s Equation, Gakhov’s Class. UDC 512.64+517.98 On tenshores in homological complexes R.N. Humerov1 1 renat.gumerov@kpfu.ru; Kazan (Volga) Federal University in the message discusses the properties and characteristics of tensors belonging to the spaces, of which standard (Co.) homological complexes are built. In particular, we calculate the tensor ranks of the elements of standard resolvent for a module consisting of summarized sequences. R.N. Gumerov 137 Keywords: complex, module, standard resolvent, standard complex, tensor, tensor work, tensor rank. By tensors, we mean elements of tensor works of linear spaces above the fields of material or complex numbers. Recall some designations and concepts. Let V1, V2 ,. . . , VN - linear spaces over the same field, having arbitrary algebraic dimensions. Consider the algebraic tensor work of these spaces V1 ⊗V2 ⊗. . . ⊗vn. For example, the linear space of square matrices of the size of n × n the image of the arithmetic vector space of the dimension n. Messions of the size of K × L × M form a linear space, which is a tensor work of three arithmetic spaces of dimensions K, L and M. Considering the algebraic tensor work of normalized VI spaces, we can talk about various norms in the space V1⊗V2⊗. . . ⊗vn and, accordingly, about various topological tensor works (see, for example, [1]). Recall, the arbitrary element x ∈ V1 ⊗V2 ⊗. . . ⊗vn is ambiguously in the form of the final amount x = r∑ i = 1 v1i ⊗ v2i ⊗. . . ⊗ vni, where v J i ∈V j, j = 1.2 ,. . . , n. Definition. The smallest number R in the above representation of the vector X is called the tensor rank of element X. The concept of a tensor rank is a natural generalization of the rank of the matrix and, in the case of matrices, coincides with the usual concept of the rank of matrix. It is well known that the rank of matrix is ​​a semi -intake from the bottom the function in the space of matrices with natural topology. More precisely, the following statement is true. Statement. Let the sequence of elements (an) converge to the matrix A. in the space of matrices A. Suppose that for a fixed natural number r, the rank of each matrix (an) does not exceed R. Then the rank of the maximum matrix A also does not exceed the number R. For tenders of arbitrary order, the situation, generally speaking, differs from the case of matrices. Namely, many arrays, whose tensor ranks do not exceed a fixed number R, is not necessarily a closed set in natural topology. If there are various algorithms to calculate the rank of matrix, then the tender rank of arbitrary array is often unknown. In addition, unlike the rank of the matrix, the tenshore rank of a large -order array depends on the field on which it is calculated. 138 Materials of the International School-Conference in the report discussed some close issues. Examples of finding the rank of specific tensors are given, in particular, for elements of tensor spaces involved in the constructions of standard complexes of homological theory (see, e.g., [2]). At the same time, we use the results of articles [3] - [5]. One example considers the standard projective resolver for the banacha algebra of Berling, consisting of summarized sequences, with a spur as a multiplication. Moreover, it is considered as a module over itself with a natural left -handed effect. Literature 1. Grothendieck A. Produits Tensorielles Topologiques et espaces nuclearies. // Mem. Amer. Math. SOC. - 1955. - No. 16. 2. Helemsky A. Ya. Homology in