Materials of the International School-Conference Literature 1. Gabbasov N. S. Methodes Solutions of a linear integral equation with a nucleus having fixed features // Izv. universities. Mathematics. - 2001. - No. 5. - C. 12–20. 2. Gabbasov N. S. to the theory of linear integrated equations of the third kind // Different. Equations. - 1996. - T. 32. - No. 9. - C. 1192–1201. 3. Gabdulkhaev B. The optimal approximation of decisions of linear problems. -Kazan: Publishing house Kazan. UNT, 1980. - 232 C. Generalized Collocation Method for a class of integral etcations of the Second Kind Z.H. Galimova We Study A Linear Integral Equation of the Second Cind with Fixed Singularites in the Kernel. For its Approximate Solution We Suggest and Justify Generalized Variant of the Collocation Method. Keywords: Integral Equation, Approximate Solution, Collocation Method, Theoretical Substantiation. UDC 514.822 Generalization of macai inequality for the stiffness of torsion L.I. Gafiyatullina1, R.G. Salakhudinov2 1 ligafiyatullina@kpfu.ru; Kazan (Volga) Federal University, Institute of Mathematics and Mechanics. N.I. Lobachevsky 2 rustem.salakudinov@kpfu.ru; Kazan (Volga) Federal University, Institute of Mathematics and Mechanics. N.I. Lobachevsky in this work using approaches from [3] proves a generalization of macai inequality for the stiffness of twisting in the classroom of convex areas. Keywords: Toughness of twisting, moments of the Euclidean region relative to the border, isperimetric inequalities, the function of the distance to the boundary of the region. A number of isoperimetric inequalities for the stiffness of torsion of single -link regions were obtained by polya and segio [2], makai [1], Peyne [4], etc. Let G - a convex region on a plane with a hidden border and ρ (Z, G) - the distance from the point z to the border ∂g region g. Let ρ (g) = subpz edg ρ (z, g). The geometric functionality determined by the equality of IP (G): = ï ω ρ (z, g) p DA is called the moment of the Euclidean region G of order p. In 1962, E. Makai received the following inequality p (G) ≤ 4I2 (G), A.A. Gimaltdinova 105 fair for any convex area G. The following theorem takes place. Let G - a convex region on the plane and p ≥ 2. ρ (g)) ρ (g) 3 3, where l (ρ (g)) is the length of the level of level ρ (z, g) located at a distance of ρ (G) from the border ∂g. Literature 1. Makai E. On the Principal Frequency of a Membrane and the Torsional Regidity of a Beam. -Stanford University Press, 1962.-P. 227-231. 2. Polya G., SEGEE G. Isperimetric inequalities in mathematical physics. - M., Fizatgiz, 1962. - 336 p. 3. Salakhudinov R.G. The isoperimetric properties of the Euclidean boundary moments of the single -link area // Izvestia of universities. Mathematics. -2013.-No. 8.-S. 66-79. 4. Payne L.E. SOME ISOPERIMETRIC INEQUALITIS IN THE TORSION PROBLEM FOR Multiply Connected Regions. - Studies in Mathematical Anaalisis and Related Topics // Essays in Honor of G. Polya (Standford University Press, Standford, California, 1962). -P. 270-280. Extensional of Makai Inequality for Torsional Rigidity L.I. Gafiyatullina, R.G. Salakhudinov Using Methods from [3], We Prved a Generalization of the Makai Inequality for Convex Domains. Keywords: Torsional Rigidity, Euclidean Moments of a Domain with Respect to the Boundary, ISOPERIMETRIC INEQUALITIS, DISTANCE FUNDARONE To the BUNDARY OF AD DOMAIN. UDC 517.584 On zero combinations of works of cylindrical functions A.A. Gimaltdinova1 1 alfiragimaltDinova@mail.ru; The Ufa State Oil Technical University explores zeros of functions, which is the sum of the works of Bessel functions with opposite indices. Keywords: Bessel function, modified function of Bessel, many zeros of function. In the study of spectral tasks for degenerating equations of a mixed type (namely, when finding its own values), it becomes necessary to find zeros of the function of the species F (t) = jν (t) i --ν (t)+ iν (t) j --ν (t) , 0 <ν <1, (1)