Materials of the International School-Conference UDC 514.174.3+519.65 The approximation of the gradient of convex functions based on φ-trialgulation of E.G. Grigoryeva1, V.A. Klyachin2 1 e_grigoreva@mail.ru; Volgograd State University 2 klchnv@mail.ru; Volgograd State University in the work is introduced by a class of φ-trialgulations of the final set P points in RN, similar to classic triangulation of Delona. Such triangulations are based on the conditions of an empty intersection with many p of the inside of any convex set from a given family of convex, limited sets, the border of which contains the peaks of symplexatriangulation. In the case of a case, classical -citizens of Delone corresponds to the family of all balls in RN. The article demonstrates the use of φ-trialgulations to obtain assessments of the errors of approximation of derivatives with 2-bit functions with piece-line functions. Keywords: triangulation of Delonya, condition of an empty sphere, a family of convex sets, a piece of linear approximation. Let the final set of points p = {pi}, I = 1, ..., n. For the function F ∈ C 1 (RN), the task of the approximate calculation of its derivatives according to the known values ​​of the function at points PI is set. One of the methods for solving such a problem is a method based on the construction of triangulation T of many points P - Symplex systems with peaks from P, which do not intersect in internal points. If such a Simmlex S ∈ T has the peaks Pi0, Pi1, ..., pin ∈ P, then you can find the function of the type fs (x) = 〈b, x〉+ c such that f (pik) = fs (pik), k = 0, ..., n. Then the approximate value of the gradient ∇ f (x) for points x ∈ S can be considered the value of the gradient of this linear function ∇ fs (x). Recall that the triangulation of T is called the triangulation of Delone [1] if the following condition of the emptiness of the sphere is fulfilled: for any sympylex S ∈ T, the described sphere does not contain the points of the set P. We introduce the designation ΔS (f) = max xicle | ∇ f (x) −∇ fs (x) | (1) for the absolute error of the gradient calculation on the sympylex S indicated in the mentioned way. Let us consider in RN the family φ strictly convex limited sets with a non -empty inside. Let s arbitrary non -overdated symplex. We determine the covers of the set B ∈ φ (if it exists) from this family as a lot, whose border contains the top of the Simplex (and, therefore, contains the entire symplex due to convexity B). In the general case, there can be several such embracing sets from this family φ. Determination 1. Consider the production triangulation of the end of the points P ⊂RN. We will say that this triangulation is theφ-trialgulation, EU E.G. Grigoryeva, V.A. Klyachin 129 Lee for any sympylex S of this triangulation, the inside of any covering set does not contain the heights of other symplexes. Note that if the family φ is a family D of all balls in RN, then the above definition coincides with the definition of Delone's triangulation. In [2], the existence of theways of the final set of points was proved, provided that the family has the following property: for any unpertured sympylex S in the φ family, and there is only one covering a lot of B (s). In the future, we will assume that this condition for the family of convex sets is executed. In this case, we will denote the set of many through b (s). Example 1. Consider the smooth, strictly convex function XN+1 = ψ (x), determined in the entire space RN and such that ψ (x) | x | →+inous with x → ∞. (2) Under the fulfillment of this condition, the intersection of the function of the functionψ (x) with an arbitrary non -vertical plane π is a convex compact (n −1) measuring surface in RN+1. For any x ∈Rn, R> 0 φψ (x, r) = {y ∈Rn: ψ (y) ≤ (x)+ 〈∇ (x), y −〉+ r}. (3) by virtue of the property (2) and the bulge ψ (x) of the set φψ (x, r) form the family {φψ} convex compact sets. In [3] it was shown that for any unexplored Simeplex S, one can build a single covering a lot of this family. This set will designate this through bψ (s). We also introduce the designation xψ = xψ (s) of the point for which, with a certain R> 0, Bψ (S) = φψ (Xψ, R) is made. The triangulations corresponding to such families of convex sets are called regular triangulations [4]. Whether the class of all φtriangulations with the class of regular triangulations coincides, the authors are not known. The requirement of the "void" in the definition of 1 can be somewhat weakened. Determination 2. Consider the production triangulation of the end of the points p ⊂RN and some whole non -negative K. We will say that this triangulation is φ-trialgulation of the multiplicity K if for any sympylex S of this triangulation the inside of any covering of the set C contains no more than k the heights of other symplexes. Consider the strictly convex and smooth function g: rn → R for which the condition is fulfilled (2). Suppose that for this function there are positive numbers λ, λ, such that the inequalities g (x) ≤ 〈x - y, ∇g (y)〉+λ | x