Materials of the International School-Conference Literature 1. Demyanov V.F., Vasiliev L.V. Incomitable optimization. - M.: Nauka, 1981. - 384 p. 2. Zukhovitsky S.I., Crane M. G. A remark about one possible generalization of theorems of A. Haar and A.N. Kolmogorova // Umn. - 1950. - T. 5. - Issue. 1 (35). -C. 217-229. On UNIFORM Approximation of Multi-Valood Map, Given by Two Segment Functions, Bynomial Vector Function A.V. Makarov, S.I. Dudov The Problem of Unified Approximation of a Multi-Valood Map, Given by Cartesian Product of Two Segment Functions, By Polynomial Function IS Considereed. The Necessary and Sufficient Conditions for the Solution of the Problem Are Formulated. They Are a Generalization of the Known Result of S.I. Zukhovitsky and M.G. Krein. Keywords: Unified Approximation, Multi-Valood Map, Polynomial Vector-Function, Subdifferential. UDC 514.822 Integral inequalities, related to the principle of uncertainty of Heisenberg R.V. Makarov1 1 ruva2007@ya.ru; Kazan (Volga) Federal University, Institute of Mathematics and Mechanics. N.I. Lobachevsky in the article considers the classical inequality of Heisenberg. We have obtained modifications of this inequality. Key words: the principle of Heisenberg’s uncertainty, integral inequalities. In 1927, Werner Geisenberg discovered the principle of uncertainty. Now this is one of the fundamental principles in quantum mechanics, which establishes the accuracy of the accuracy of the simultaneous determination of the pair characterizing the quantum observed system described by non -evidence (for example, coordinates and pulse, current and voltage, electric and magnetic fields). It sounds like this: the more accurately one characteristic of the particle is measured, the less accurately you can measure the second. The principle of uncertainty can be recorded in the form: △ x · △ p êħ/2, where △ x is the value of the coordinates of the midlordic deviation, △ p is the medium -sequracratic deviation of the pulse, ħ is a constant bar. In the general case, the principle of uncertainty is applicable not only to coordinate and impulse (as Heisenberg showed), but also to pairs of conjugated variables. Heisenberg inequality is fundamental in many areas of mathematical analysis and mathematical physics, and was intensively studied with MO R.V. Makarov 247 cops of his discovery. A rich story is associated with original inequality, which was expanded and specified in many directions. When an accurate quantitative assessment of the principle of uncertainty is required, the most used of them is called the inequality of Heisenberg. It appears in the work of Heisenberg, dedicated to the theoretical analysis of the principle of uncertainty. In this work, it received an insufficient mathematical justification, this omission was corrected later by Kennard and Weil. The classical inequality of Heisenberg looks like this: theorem 1. for ∀ f ∈ L2 (rn) and ∀a, b ∈R is true: ˆ rn (x –A) 2 | f (x) | 2 d x · ˆ rn (cil -b) 2 | F̂ (cil) | 2Dising ∥ f ∥24 16π2 · n2. Here is another statement. The wording of the principle of uncertainty. For any function F ∈ S (R), provided that ∥ f ∥2 = 1 is the correct ratio: - ˆ r | f (x) | 2 ln (| f (x) | 2) d x - ˆ r | F̂ (cil) | 2 ln (| f̂ (ă) | 2) dival ln e 2. This theorem has a direct connection with the physical quantities, namely with the entropy of Shannon: E (ρ) = - ρ ρ (x) lnρ (x) d X. We substantiated the following inequalities, close to the principle of Heisenberg's uncertainty. Theorem 2. For any function F ∈ L2 (R) with a compact carrier SUPP F ∈ R, the following inequalities are performed: ∥∥∥∥ f (x) x2 +1 ∥∥∥∥ 2 + π 2 ∥ă | f̂ (₽) | ∥2 ê r 2x arctg x −1 (x2 +1) 2 · | f (x) | 2 d x, ∥∥∥∥ f (x) 4x (x +1) 2 ∥∥∥∥ 2 + π 2 ∥ă | F̂ (cil) | ∥2 ê r r (3x +1) arctgpx −px 4x3/2 (x +1) 2 · | f (x) | 2 d x. Theorem 3. Let A, B, K ∈R. Then, for any function F ∈ L2 (R), which satisfies the condition ∥ f ∥2 = 1, the inequality is fair: ˆ r ek (x - a) 2 | f (x) | 2 d x · ˆ r ek (₽ --b) 2 | F̂ (cil) | 2 dival ek/2π. I express gratitude to my scientific leader prof. F.G. Avhadiev for setting the task and useful comments. 248 Materials of the International School-Conference Literature 1. Folland G., Sitaram A. The Uncertainty Principle: A Mathematical Survey // J. Fourier Anal. Appl. -1997.-No. 3.-P. 207-238. 2. Beckner W. Pitt’s inquality and the Uncertainty Principle // Proc. American Math. SOC. -1995.-No. 123.-P. 1897-1905. Integral Inequalites Related to Uncertain Principle of Heisenberg R.V. Makarov We Describe The Classical Heisenberg Inequality and Its Modifications. ALSO We Obtain Some New Similar Estimates and Inequalities. Keywords: Uncertain Principle, Integral Inequality. UDC 517.95 On the relationship of solvability of regional tasks for the Poisson equation on non -combact Riman varieties E.A. Mazepa1 1 Elena.mazepa@volsu.ru; Volgograd State University in this work, using a sufficiently new approach to setting marginal tasks on an arbitrary non -combact Riman variety M, based on the introduction of class