Subdifferentials for the Difference of Convex Functions E.S. Polovinkin it is shown that for some classes of funculations all epiderivates and subdifferentials of F. Clarke, P. Michel - J.-P.Penot Type and Others Coincide. Several Rules of Calculation of Subdifferentials for the Difference of Two Convex Function are Obtained. SOME EXAMPles are considered. Keywords: Nonsmooth Analysis, Convex Function, Semiregular Function, Directional Derivatives, Subdifferentials. UDC 514.752, 514.764.274, 517.97 Condition for the stability of extreme surfaces N.M. Poluboyarova1 1 Natasha_Medvedeva@volsu.ru; Volgograd State University describes the result of the condition of the stability of an extreme surface. Since the extremes of the functional work in question are modeling, for example, physical equilibrium fluids in a gravitational field with potential, tent coatings, the task of determining their stability is very relevant. Key words: variation of functionality, extreme surface, functionality of the type of area, functionality of volumetric density of forces, functionality of potential energy, stability. Introduction in the work presents a study of the stability of extreme functionality of potential energy. Just as the minimum surfaces are extremely extremely functional of the area, and the smooth surfaces we are considering - extreme functionality, which is a linear combination of the functionality of the type of area and functionality from the volumetric density of forces. Such extreme surfaces model the conditions of equilibrium fluids in the gravitational field with potential, tent coatings, magnetic fluids, capillary surfaces. Therefore, their study on stability and instability does not lose relevance, and the functionality studied is complicated in order to contain more information about the physical characteristics of the system. The areas of sustainability and instability of minimal surfaces were searched for in various methods, both analytical, for example, using variations of 298 materials of the international school-conference functionality of the area, surfaces indices, and using the geometric properties of surfaces, for example, using display and modularity technology. There is a wide range of works devoted to the study of the stability of the minimum surfaces in the Euclidean and pseudo -Euclidean spaces, in particular, the work of Yu. A. Aminov, V. A. Klyachin, V. M. Milikov, A. V. Pogorelov, V. G. Tkachev, A. A. Tuzhilina, A. T. Fomenko, M. to Carmo, C. K. Penga, Sh. Yau, R. Finn, J. Simons and others. In this work, it is proposed to introduce a size similar to the main frequency, when whose help the task of stability is to find a solution to differential inequality. In [1] it is shown that in the surface of the surface there is a solution to the Jacobi equation. The setting of the problem let M-a n-dimensional oriented variety of class C 2. Consider the oriented hyperpore m = (m, u) obtained with 2-load U: m → Rn+1. Let ω⊂ rn+1 some area, such that m ⊂ ∂ω; Φ, ψ: rn+1 → R-C 2-loud functions. If the lection of the field of single norms to the surface m, then for any C 2-clatter of the surface M, the value W (m) = ˆ m φ (Answers + ˆ ω ψ (x) d x, (1) which does not depend on the choice of normal hole. Functionality (1) will call the functionality of potential energy. The surface M is extreme if the first variation of the functionality (1) is zero for all endlessly small surface m. The extreme surface M is stable if the second variation of the functionality (1) is familiar with all endlessly small surface M, otherwise - unstable. Denote g = {gi j} n +1i, j = 1, gi j = ∂2φ ∂ Answers J +ΔI J (φ - 〈dart, ξ〉), (2) where dart = (∂φ ∂ăunk1, ∂φ ∂ Answers,., ∂φ ∂ern+1), ΔI J - a symbol of the crownker; Ki - the main curvatures; EI are the main directions of the surface. Theorem 1. Ifw (t) = w (mt), then w ′ (0) = ˆ m (div (dart (ă)) t −nhφ (ă)+ψ (x)) h (x) dm, where div. - divergence in the metric of the surface m, h = 〈h⃗, ă〉 - the average curvature of the surface relative to the normal hole. Moreover, ifw ′ (0) = 0 for any function h (x) ∈C 10 (m), then W ′ ′ (0) = {G (∇H, ∇H)+H2 (〈∇ ∇ ∇ ∇ ∇ ∇ ∇ ∇ ∇ ∇ ∇ ∇ ∇ ∇ ∇ ∇ ∇ ∇ ∇ ∇ ∇ ∇ ∇ ∇ (x), ă〉 - n∑ i = 1 k2i g (ei, ei))} dm, (3) N.M. Poloboyarova 299 where the quadratic form corresponding to the matrix (2). Comment. Variations for the functionality of the type of area were obtained in [2]. A sign of the stability of the extreme surface further we will believe that the matrix G of (2) is positively determined and 〈∇ ∇, ă ≤ 0. We introduce the value µ (m) = Inf ´ m g (∇h, ∇h) dm ´ m qh2 dm, where is Q = n∑ i = 1 k2i g (ei, ei) - 〈∇ ∇, ₽〉, and the exact lower line is taken according to all lipschit functions h (m): m → R so that ´ m h (m) dm = 0. Since (3) is made for any function H (x) ∈C 10 (M), for definitely the style of the condition in the form of h (x) | ∂m = 0, ˆ m h (x) dm = 0. Let λ andλ - the minimum and maximum module of the matrix's own values ​​(2). Then the theorem 2. If there is a positiveC 2-Funct