The Transformations of Lyapunov Z.ya. Yakupov The Groups of Transformations of Differentials Simulate Real Objects of the Surround World, the Presence and the Physical STRUCTURA OF Thhees Include, for Example, Ideas of the Homogenity and Isotropy of Space and Time, The Dynamic Similarity of Phenomena, The Galilean and Lorentz Invariance, And SO ON. Keywords: Transformation Groups, Ordinary Differential Equations, Qualitating Theory, Reducibolyty, Comparison Methods. UDC 519.6 about the direction of RBHM and its evolution Z.Ya. Yakupov1, R.K. Galimova2 1 zymat@bk.ru; Kazan National Research Technical University named after A.N. Tupoleva-KAI (KNITO-KAI) 2 zymat@bk.ru; Kazan National Research Technical University named after A.N. Tupoleva-KAI (KNITO-KAI) in the modern world, the transmission of information through electronic communication channels, as well as processing (in any form) of information is carried out using its coding. Coding, in turn, is used by Adamara matrices. Currently, it is not known whether the matrices of Adamar exist all orders, multiple of four. Finding the matrices of the highest order makes it possible to more qualitatively transmit and process information. The work is devoted to the study of the problem of Adamar, to find dependencies between the order of the matrices and the formulas describing them, the modernization of the well -known list of formulas for the expression of the orders of these matrices. Keywords: the theory of coding of information, noise-resistant coding, Adamar matrices, Reed-Solomon codes, Adamar hypothesis. 416 Materials of the International School-Conference Introduction. A promising direction in the study of this issue is matrix coding. Adamara matrices, examined by the French mathematician Jacques Adamar back in 1893, are, in our opinion, one of the key concepts of this direction [1]. The matrix of Adamara is such a square matrix of order N, the elements of which are 1 and −1. Any in pair of various lines or columns of the matrix of Adamara always satisfy the condition of orthogonality: their scalar work is zero. Already, the matrices of Adamara find their application in solving various problems of coding theory [2]-[4]. So, the use of Adamara matrices in noise-resistant coding, apparently, can help eliminate some inconvenience associated with the use of Rida Solomon codes. However, the same problems as: - the unproven of the existence of Adamar matrix of any order of frequent four (hypothesis of Adamar), - the lack of a sign of the presence of errors in the decoded message, - the absence of an algorithm for eliminating errors in a decoded message, inhibit the application of Adamara matrix in this area of ​​noise -resistant coding. It is hoped that the solution of the problem described above will very soon become one of the priority tasks of the theory of information coding. Methods. The theoretical and methodological basis of research in the study of the matrix of Adamar are the scientific achievements of domestic and foreign specialists [5]-[6]. During the implementation of the studies, known methods for evidence of the compliance of matrices by the criteria of the matrix Adamara, as well as the methods of Williamson, Elich, Goldberg, Bomer-Hall were used. Conclusion. So, the matrix (Adamara) approach turns out to be very creative and leads to unexpected scientific results [7]-[12]. Literature 1. Yakupov Z.Ya. On the genesis of Adamaric matrices // Analytical mechanics, stability and control: works x the meches. Chetaevskaya conf. T.1. Section 1. Anatal. Mechanics. Kazan, June 12-16, 2012-Kazan: Publishing House Kazan. state. tech. University, 2012.-548 p. 2. Yakupov Z.Ya., Khaziev R.M. Adamarov Matrix // Fundamental and Applied Sciences Today. Vol. 2: Mater. Mezh. Scientific and practical. Conf. Createspace. 4900 Lacross Road. North Charleston, SC, USA 29406. - Moscow: SPC Academic, 2013. - S. 147–149. 3. Galimova R.K., Yakupov Z.Ya. Equations of the elliptical type in modeling technological processes // Proceedings of the mathematical center named after N.I. Lobachevsky. - T.51. -Kazan: Publishing house Kazan. matte. Society, Publishing House of the Academy of Sciences of the Republic of Tatarstan, 2015.-S. 144–146. 4. Yakupov Z. Ya. ABOUT THE HADAMARD MATRICES // Science in the Modern Information Society VI: Procedings of the Conference/ North Charleston, 13-14.07.2015, Vol. 3. - North Charleston, SC, USA: CreatSpace, 2015. - P. 115–118. 5. Discrete mathematics and mathematical issues of cybernetics. T.1. - M.: Nauka, 1974 .-- 311 p. 6. Hedayat A., Wallis W.D. Hadamard Matrices and Their Applications. - University of Illinois At Chicago Circle and University of Newcastle. The Annals of Statistics. - 1978. - V. 6, No. 6. 7. Yakupov Z.Ya., Lutfullin B.L. RUST language and implementation of fifthly logic // New Science: Problems and Prospects: Mezh. Scientific. period. ed. Following the results of the measure. Scientific and practical. Conf. (June 04, 2016, Sterlitamak). In 3 hours - part 3. - S. 42–49. D.F. Abzalilov, E.A. Shirokova 417 8. Galimova R.K., Yakupov Z.Ya. Studying solutions of the Laple equation