The use of elements of the history of mathematics in the educational process of Z.Z. Rizvanov1 1 rizvanov.zemfir@mail.ru; Kazan (Volga) Federal University, the article is devoted to the use of elements of the history of mathematics in the educational process. Various methods and forms of introduction of historical material in the lessons are considered. Key words: history of mathematics, training, historical information. “Anyone who, turning to the old, is able to open a new one, worthy of being a teacher” Confucius Modern School program indicates the need to familiarize students with facts from the history of mathematics and biographies of great mathematicians. But the program does not specify what information from history should be provided to students when and how to do it. Familiarization of schoolchildren with the history of mathematics means a well -thought -out, systematic acquaintance in the lessons with the most important events in the history of science in organic connection with the systematic massage of software material. Only such a close interweaving of history and theory will ensure the achievement of these goals. The study of the history of mathematical structures, the emergence and formation of these concepts, which lie in their basic ideas, allows you to form an idea of ​​mathematics as a holistic science that develops in the relationship of its individual areas. Schoolchildren should get an idea of ​​how the foundations of mathematics were laid, what fundamental knowledge was obtained in various historical periods. The study of the history of mathematics introduces students to the history of mathematical culture, mathematical ideas that influence the methods of cognition in various fields of science. Historical material, acting on the consciousness, feelings of students, forms their moral ideals. The life and activities of many scientists can serve as an example of zeal and perseverance in work, faith in their own forces. In addition, the history of mathematics is part of the general story, therefore, without its use, it is not possible to form a holistic view of the development of human society in the historical process of the formation and development of knowledge. Thus, the acquaintance of students with fragments of the history of mathematics has certain goals: 1) Historical excursions increase the interest of students in the study of the subject and deepen their understanding of the studied section of the program; 2) acquaintance with historical miles expands the horizons, allows you to better understand the role of mathematics in modern society; 3) information from history encourage students to independent and creative work in mathematics; 114 Materials of the Youth School-Conference 4) They form ideas about the main periods of development of mathematics as part of human culture. At first glance, it seems difficult to find in the lesson the time required to familiarize yourself with historical material. However, the question of using elements of the history of mathematics in the lessons is almost completely subordinate to the main issue - the connection of mathematics studied at the school with history. Whatever the form of a message of historical facts is a brief conversation, an excursion, a laconic certificate, solving a problem, showing and clarifying a drawing - the time used cannot be considered lost in vain if the teacher managed to present a historical fact in a close connection with the theory studied in the lesson. Tasks with elements of the history of mathematics Memitations of educational material. For example, one of the most important problems in the main school in the main school is the problem of the organization of repetition in grade 5. On the one hand, it is necessary to renew the existing knowledge of students, on the other hand, to enrich them. In addition, this repetition should contribute to the development of general intellectual skills of students, create a mood for success. To repeat the positional records of natural numbers, tasks that emphasize the features of this form of presentation of natural numbers can be used. So, for example, “in the Roman” number system, numbers are used: I - 1; V - 5; X - 10; L - 50; C - 100; D - 500; M - 1000. When several Roman numbers are written nearby, then the number indicated by them is read according to the following rules: 1. If the figure with a greater value is to the left of the number with a lower value, then their values ​​are folded. 2. If the figure with a lower value is to the left of the number with greater value, then the smaller one is deducted from greater value. At the same time, the smaller figure should not be repeated. 3. If there are two identical numbers nearby, then their values ​​are folded. 4. The same figure can be written in a row no more than three times. For example, the number 7 is recorded VII (V + I + I); number 19 - XIX (X + X - I); number 174 = CXXIV; Conversely, CXLVII = 100 + 40 + 5 + 1 +1 = 147. Tasks with elements of the history of mathematics contribute to the development of general intellectual skills, such as the ability to solve problems. In almost all subjects of the school courses of mathematics of grades 5-6, it is advisable to study old tasks. Here is one of the old tasks. A certain person hired an employee for a year, promising to hit a 12 rubles. and caftan. But he, having worked for 7 months, wanted to leave