Materials of the Youth School-Conference UDC 519.6 Study of the possibilities of visualization of data by means of the ProCessing A.I. Nemkova1 1 nemkovaaiv@stud.kpfu.ru; Kazan (Volga) Federal University, Institute of Mathematics and Mechanics. N.I. Lobachevsky in this article we study the possibilities of using an open programming language Processing in education: directly in the educational process in the study of programming languages ​​and various platforms. Key words: processing, Processing, Processing language in education, programming language, visualization. Computer technologies are constantly being improved: new platforms are being developed for the affordable development of programming languages, with simple syntax and rich opportunities for creating rich graphic and interactive programs. As one of the methods of working with great data and the solution to the problem of the complexity of their perception is the visualization of data. Processing is a means of creating complete professional work: images, videos, interactive installations, applications. Processing language is syntactically based on Java. The creators of the Dangled Language are Casey Reese and Ben Fry. It was created in 2001 at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology (MIT) and in our time is actively developing a non -commercial initiative group (Processing Foundation, Processing.org). Initially, this language was developed with the aim of teaching schoolchildren, for motivation for programming. Further, Processing was significantly expanded by the addition of visual capabilities to it. In addition, it began to use it artists and architects to create their projects. Companies such as New York Times, General Electric, Nokia, Yahoo! They began to use Processing to visualize their internal data [1]. Distinctive features of the Processing language existing a spectrum of languages ​​focused on aesthetic objects, and not on executable code: graphic images, demonstration videos or Web sites. Specialized languages ​​of this kind include POV-ray, which allows you to create three-dimensional images using rendering techniques; Those compiling the text in layouts ready for printing the printing house; SVG (Scalable Vector Graphics) - XML ​​scheme for creating vector graphics, and so on. There are also other, more general languages: ActionScript is based on Macromedia Flash and is widespread in Web. At the far end of the spectrum, there are general languages ​​such as C, Java, Perl and Python - languages ​​that allow you to use all the capabilities of the computer. Processing can be attributed to something average. On the one hand, he is the language of the programming A.I. Nemkova 85 general recognition (allows you to cause any function Java), but at the same time it is borderly gone in a very small set of simplified objects - points, spheres, rectangles - and a simple model of three -dimensional space. The code of this language is compiled in an interactive graphic element. Program structure program on Processing is called a sketch (from the English Sketch - sketch). Each sketch in Processing is a class inherited from the Papplet Java Class, which contains most of the possibilities of Processing. Before performing a sketch, it is converted into a Java code for performing Windows/Linux/MacOS/Android or in a JavaScript code for execution in the browser inside Canvas. When programming in Processing, all the classes created are internal classes of the main. This imposes certain restrictions in the development. Despite the fact that Processing and a very simple language that allows many liberties in order to write a decent program must be followed by some agreements. For example, all initialization functions: Size () - window size, stroke () - lines color, background () - background color, and some others must be placed inside the special official function of Void setup () [6]. The next service function is Void Draw (). Its analogue can be called int main () in C ++. This function is the basis for building any animation. Its peculiarity is that it is automatically caused by each Freimbufer update. The last agreement is associated with the positioning of objects in the coordinate plane. After initializing the size of the window with the Setup () function, two global constants - Width and Height, are available inside the program, in which the window height is stored, respectively, stored. Everyone, when you want to place, say, a circle in the center of the screen, you need to use such a record [2]. An example of a program using agreements, the Variableellipse () team calculates the mouse speed, draws a small ellipse if the mouse slowly moves or depicts a large ellipse if the mouse moves quickly. Using the Random () command, we randomly determine the gloss of ellipses. 86 Materials of the Youth School-Conference Fig. 1. The sketch of the drawing program with cops in Processing rice