Materials of the Youth School-Conference Literature 1. Romankovv.A. Algebraic cryptography. -Omsk: Publishing House of Omsk. state. University, 2013 .-- 136 p. 2. Mahalanobis A. A Simple Generalization of the El-Gamal Cryptosystem to Non-Abelian Groups // Arxiv: CS/06070111V5 [CS.cr] 7 May 2007.-13 p. 3. McLeins. Categories for working mathematics. - Moscow: Fizatlit, 2004 .-- 352 p. On Anaalogues of the Key Exchange Mor Protocol Based 2-Categories S.N. Maltseva in this Paper, A Key Exchange Protocol of Mor Type Is Creed on the Platform of 2-Categories. Keywords: Key Exchange Protocol, 2-Category, Mor. UDC 519.6 The use of discrete dynamic systems to the study of population models E.N. Matveeva1, N.I. Nasyova2 1 ngoza@yandex.ru; Northern (Arctic) Federal University 2 ngoza@yandex.ru; Kazan National Research Technical University named after A.N. Tupoleva in the work conducted a study of the dynamics of display f (x) = r xe - x, x ∈ R, depending on the value of the parameter r ∈ R \ {0}. The results of the analytical study of this display for the biological model of the Riker are interpreted and the values ​​of the parameter R were identified, in which the most favorable situation is observed for the development of the fish population, the forecast of its number and the commercial catch. Key words: discrete dynamic system, biological population, Riker model. Discrete dynamic systems generated by smooth and piece of one -dimensional display with one or two parameters are increasingly used when constructing mathematical models in applied tasks. For example, a change in the number of a biological population can be described using a logistics model or model of a biverton-holt, symmetric or asymmetric tent-like display, models of two-dimensional discrete dynamics. Another interesting model describing the population is the Ricker model, which shows the dependence of the replenishment (recruits) of the fish population on the parent reserve. The graph of the dependence of the number of recruits on the number of manufacturers is called the replenishment curve. The family of curves proposed in 1954 by ichtiologist W.E. A ricker, can be described by various expressions, the main of which has the form R = αpe --βp, where R is the number of recruits (the number of replenishment of the population); P is the value of the parental reserve (measured in E.N. Matveeva, N.I. Naskova 79 pieces, units of mass, in the amount of delayed caviar, etc.); α - the growth rate of the population in the absence of limiting (dimensionless parameter); β is a parameter with a dimension of 1/p (associated with the capacity of the ecological niche of this population). The Riker replenishment curve is applicable in the study of fish populations, when as a result of high density, the fish requires more time to grow to commercial sizes; When the reaction of predators and parasites to the number of young fish consumed by them is delayed in time, so that the type of victim with a high initial density has a re-compensation of numbers. When studying the Riker model R = αpe -βp, it can be seen that the β parameter does not affect the nature of dynamic behavior. Indeed, if you introduce a variable converting x = βp, we get the equation f (x) = r xe --x, α = r. We conducted a study of the dynamics of display f (x) = r xe - x, x i nR, depending on the values ​​of the parameter R ∈R \ {0}. Attaching and repulsive -vegetable points, periodic orbits with periods of degrees of number 2 were found, bifurcation diagrams were studied in cases of bifurcation of doubling of the period, as well as intervals of parameter values, where the dynamics of the display is chaotic. The results of the analytical study of the dynamics of display f (x) are interpreted for the biological model of the Riker description of the replenishment of fish populations. For a fish population model, conditions X ≥ 0 and R> 0 must be met. In this case, many parameter R values ​​are divided into 3 intervals: 0 <r <1, ​​1 <r ≤ e2, r> e2. As the study of the display behavior shows, the dynamics F (X) at the interval 1 <r ≤ e2 shows the greatest interest. The dynamic system is in a inpatient state at x = 0 (repulsive motionless point) and x = lnr (attractive motionless point). These points correspond to the replacement level of stock and reproduction. Consider separately two intervals of parameters R. 1 <r <e. Orbits of points x ∈ (0, lNR) ∪ (lnr,+urb) converge to a fixed point x = lnr. If the number of parental reserves is less than the value of LNR, then the number of recruits with each generation increases, but does not exceed the replacement level of stock and reproduction equal to LNR. Thus, the replenishment will reach the maximum value in the parental reserve equal to LNR. If the number of parental reserve is greater than the value of LNR, then the number of recruits with each generation will decrease to the replacing level of equal LNR. E <r <e2. Interval (0,+∞) - a pool of attraction of a fixed point x = lNR, where lNR is a replacing level