Materials of the Youth School-Conference −1.5 −1 −0.5 0.5 1 1.5 −1.5 −1 −0.5 0 0.5 1 1.5 1 1.1 1.3 1.4 1.5 1.6 1.7 1.8 1.9 2 Fig. 2. The contour schedule of the harmonic function of solving a two -dimensional Laplace equation with constant boundary values. Literature 1. Elshenawya., Shirokova E. Dirichlet Problem Solution for Simply and Dubly Connected Domains with Smooth Boundaries // Tr. Matte. center named after N.I. Lobachevsky. -Kazan: Publishing house Kazan. matte. STO-VO, 2017.-T. 54.-C. 12–15. Construction of the Approximate Solution of 2d Dirichlet Problem in Dubly Connected Domains Near the Boundaries A. Elshenaywy, E.A. Shirokova The Method Constructs an Approximate Cauchy Integral Solution of the 2d Dirichlet Probley Connected Domains. The Harmonic Function Near the Boundaries is Approximated by Linear Functions. Keywords: Cauchy Integral, 2d Dirichlet Problem, Dubly Connected Domain. UDC 532.3 Modeling of the movement of a two -mass wedge -shaped vibration vibration in the viscous fluid of A.I. Yunusova1 1 yunusova24@rambler.ru; Kazan National Research Technological University in this work studies the movement of a two -mass vibrational system (vibro -zone) in viscous fluid. The system consists of a sealed wedge -shaped body and mobile internal mass. The issues of increasing the efficiency of the viborobot movement are considered. The solution of the problem is carried out in numbers on the basis of the package with A.I. Yunusova 163 Openfoam open software code. Keywords: vibrorobot, viscous fluid, movement efficiency, openfoam. The vibrational principle of the movement of bodies is of interest among engineers for many years. Starting from the first half of the 20th century, many devices with a vibrational propeller were described in the technical literature. The vibrational movement in recent years has been the subject of a comprehensive study in applied mechanics and robotics [1-4]. In this paper, the rectilinear movement of the two -mass system in the viscous incompetent fluid of the Reynolds are viscous. The system consists of a sealed wedge -shaped body of mass M and mobile internal mass M. The movement of the system occurs due to the longitudinal periodic movement of the internal mass relative to the body. This principle of movement seems appropriate for mini and micro-devices. The equation of the system’s movement is written in the following form: u̇m = −µ2u̇m +µ1 r 2 s f. Here µ2 is the ratio of the mobile mass to the full weight of the viborobot, µ1 - the ratio of the mass of viscous fluid, which occupies the same volume, which is the vibro -bobin, to the mass of the vibration, s. - The cross -sectional area of ​​the body. The movement of the fluid around the vibro-zone is described by the system of the Equin-Stew equations. This system of equations in the Cartesian coordinate system can be recorded as: ∂u ∂t + u · ∇u = ∇P + 1re∆u, ∇ · u = 0, whereuu = (u, v) - dimensionless speed, p - dimensionless pressure , Re - the number of Reynolds. The calculation of the forces acting on the vibration housing from the side of the viscous fluid is carried out according to the formula: f = ∫ ∫ ωpnd s - ∫ ωσ · nd s, where the elus voltage tee is the surface of the vibration, n - the external normal to the surface of the viborobot. The task of interaction between the robot with a viscous fluid is solved using direct numerical modeling conducted in the open openfoam package based on the scheme presented in [5]. The work investigates issues of increasing the efficiency and speed of the device due to the choice of a special law of movement of internal mass. For this, a comparative analysis of the characteristics of movement and flow regimes is carried out with a simple harmonic law of fluctuations in the internal mass and a special two -phase, obtained in [4]. In both cases, the periodic movement occurs along the axis of the symmetry of the vibrobot housing is considered. The results of the study show that the directed movement of Viberro 164 materials of the youth school-conference of the bot with the wedge-shaped form of the case can be implemented both for the harmonic and two-phase laws of the movement of the internal mass. For the case of a harmonic law, the movement of the system with the same parameters of fluctuations in the internal mass, possibly as the basis forward and forward, the choice of direction of movement is determined by the initial conditions. The two -phase law of fluctuations in the internal mass provides the only possible direction of the system. The maximum characteristics are achieved when the robot moves forward. Using a two -phase law, we can ensure a higher speed (up to 50%) in the liquid, as well as significantly increase movement efficiency (up to 3 times). The work was carried out with financial support from the RFFIA 16-31-00462 (Mol_a) Literature 1. Chernowkof.L. Optimal periodic movements of a two-mass system in a resisting environment // PMM. - 2008. - T. 72. - Issue. 2. - S. 202–215. 2. Bolotnik.N., figurine. Optimal control of the rectilinear movement of the system of two bodies in resistance