. Sylow Subgroups of at-Group A.V. Rozhkov, M.V. Rozhkova Sylow Subgroups of At-Group over the Sequence of Finite Cyclic Groups Are Studied. A PROBLEM FROM THE KOUROVKA Notebook Is Resolved. Keywords: Group Theory, Packages of Computer Algebra, Sylow Subgroups, Burnside Groups, Not Locally Finite Torsion Groups. UDC 519.688, 511.174 The lower central row of AT -group A.V. Rozhkov1, M.V. Rozhkova2 1 ros.seminar@bk.ru; Kuban State University 2 ros.seminar@bk.ru; Krasnodar College of Management, Technology and Technology studies the lower central rows of the AT groups above the sequence of cyclic groups of simple orders. Keywords: group theory, packaging agricultural algebra, lower -central row, groups of the group, not locally final periodical groups. The introduction of Bernsaydal groups is endless of course generated periodic groups. The first example of Bernsaydova Group of an unlimited period, given by the representation, and not by the contact, is the design of S.V. Aleshin [1]. In [2] the design of Aleshin was generalized and introduced by the class of AT -groups. All the definitions and designations we need are given in the work of A.V. Rozhkov, M.V. Rozhkova and “Silovsky subgroups of the AT groups” published in the same collection. The main object of our study is the atω group. 120 Materials of the Youth School-Conference Determination. Let the pan = (P1, P2, ...)-a sequence of simple numbers, then a regular AT group above the sequence of cyclic groups A = (AP1, AP2, ...) is called the atω group. We also recall the definition of the lower central row of the group. Note that the upper central row has no AT groups, since they have a single center. Definition. Let the group beg. The second member of the lower central row of the group is the communeγ2 (G) = [G, G]. If the N-th member of the lower central row is already determined, then γn+1 (g) = [γn (g), g]. The lower central row of the 2-group Grigorchuk and the 3-group Gupta Sides The question of the existence of a group with an infinite lower central line, all the factors of which are limited in aggregate, is attributed to the Field Laureate E. Zelmanov and the famous algebraist A. Shalevu. In any case, the question was very difficult. In [3], for the first time, the lower central series of 2 groups of Grigorchuk was calculated and it turned out that all its factors have order 2 or 4. Determination. Grigorchukug = G R (C, F, G, H) is an Atω group above the sequence ω = (2.2, ...). At the same time, C is the root generating, f, g, h - longitudinal generators with the guide (0.0, ...), set recursively f: = (g, c), g: = (h, c), h: h: h: h: h: h: h: = (F, 1). Thus, C2 = F 2 = G 2 = H2 = 1, H = F G, i.e. The Grigorchuk group is generated by three involutions, two of which are doubled. This is an extremely “economical” generating many. In the GAP4 package, the official website http://www.gap-system.org, a program was created that calculates the factors of the lower central row of the Grigorchuk group. The calculated first few hundred factors coincided with predicted work [3]. Here is the text of the program http://www.gap-system.org/doc/examples/grigorchuk.html. The next attempt to calculate the factors was made in the work [4] in relation to the 3-group Gupta Sidka. However, despite the rather significant amount of work, it was possible to calculate only the first 10 factors of the lower central row. Definition. Gupta Group - Sidki G = G R (C, G) is an Atω group above the sequence ω = (3.3, ...). At the same time, C is the root generating, G is the longitudinal with the guide (0.0, ...), set by recursively G: = (G, C, C -1). Thus, c3 = g 3 = 1. Gupta group - Sidoka is the most just set AT -group. The remaining problems in the work [3] are three significant flaws, apparently eliminated. First. In one of the main lemmas describing some switching identities, one of the cases is not disassembled and, formally, Lemma has not been proven. Second. The inductive construction of vector spaces arising when calculating the factors of the lower central row, too concise and cannot be considered as complete and even more exhausting evidence. Third. The evidence is ideologically poorly worked out, since it cannot be applied to other AT groups. ON THE. Ryazanov 121 Given that since 1996, there is no progress on this topic and work [3] remains the only one brought to the final result - the calculation of all factors of the lower central row, has the idea to return to it and eliminate the listed shortcomings. Which was done by us. The research turned out to be quite extensive. Here we are not able to give even fragments of building this system of vector spaces, which turned out to be interesting objects even in terms of their independent study. Complete work is being prepared for a journal publication. Literature 1. Aleshin S.V. The final machines and the problem of Bernside about periodic groups // Matem. notes. - 1972. - T. 11, No. 3. - S. 319–328. 2. Rozhkov A.V. Ktioi groups of Aleshinsky TI