Algebraic Platforms in Public Key CryptoGraphy K.I. Emelyanov The Paper Discusses The Masking of Algebraic Platforms, Such AS Groups and Groupoids. The Idea of ​​Such a Masking Iserred to a More Complex Platform-A 2-Category. Keywords: Cryptography, Masking of An Algebraic Platform, 2-Category. UDC 532.5.013.12 On the role of the hereditary component of hydrodynamic force in the movement of spherical vibration in the viscous fluid of OS Zhuchkova1, A.N. Nuriev2 1 oszaharova@kpfu.ru; Kazan (Volga) Federal University, Institute of Mathematics and Mechanics. N.I. Lobachevsky 2 corei7Tesla3@gmail.com; Kazan (Volga) Federal University, Institute of Comathematics and Mechanics named after N.I. Lobachevsky in the work conducts a study of questions about the structure of the hydrodynamic power of the resistance that occurs during the periodic movement of the spherical vibration in the liquid, and the influence of its various components on the process and the effectiveness of movement. Including, the role of the hereditary resistance force in the dynamics of the robot movement is revealed. Excellence is carried out as part of direct numerical modeling using the Openfoam software package. It is shown that the hereditary component of force in the case of the final periods of movement gives a contribution to total force, comparable to quasi -stance. Its influence significantly reduces the effectiveness of the mechanism of movement for the case of high -frequency oscillations. Keywords: vibrorobot, hydrodynamic resistance, viscous fluid, self -propelled device, hereditary forces, the forces of the joined masses, quasi -stance forces. The definition of hydrodynamic forces that occur during the movement of the spherical body of imperibility belongs to classical problems of hydromechanics. In this paper, it is considered in relation to the task of the progressive engine of 50 materials of the youth school-conference of the spherical viborobot-a self-propelled device consisting of a solid sealed spherical body placed in a viscous fluid and a mobile internal mass that makes periodic fluctuations inside it. The possibility of a directed movement of such a system rehearses the nonlinear resistance of the liquid. Questions about the structure, the magnitude of its constituent and their influence on the movement of the viborobot are considered in this work. Modern models of hydrodynamic forces (see, e.g. [1]), describing the effect of viscous fluid on the sphere with non -stationary progressive movement, are based (as in the case of small Reynolds numbers [2]) on the release of three basic effects: quasi -stance resistance (FST) , the forces of the joined masses (FA) and the forces of hereditary resistance (FH): F = fst +fa +fH. (1) The theoretical model that studies the possibilities of the viborobot movement due to quasistational resistance was presented in the work [3]. Under such conditions, the effectiveness of the system movement in the Raynolds Raynolds number REAV ≤ 103 could reach 7.9% (where Reav is the number of Reynolds compared at the average speed). The optimal unit of this case is the two -phase periodic laws of the movement of the internal mass, where the long phases of slow progressive movement, on which the sphere experiences low resistance, are replaced by short phases of rapid return movement, allowing to return the internal cargo to the initial position due to high resistance with a minimum rollback. It was these results that were chosen as the starting point in this work. Using numerical modeling, the movement of the vibro -zone according to such two -phase laws of relatively painful values ​​of the pronunciationsreav ≤ 102 was examined. A fragment of the Law of the UM movement with a period τ = 1 is depicted in Fig. 1.46 0.48 0.52 0.54 0.46 0.46 0.46 0.46 0. , 48 0.5 0.52 0.54 −20 −15 −10 −5 0 I III IIII II τ U M Fig. 1. A fragment of the periodic law of the UM (τ) movement of the UM (τ) movement in the calculation of hydrodynamic interaction was a solution to the full system of the Navier-Kosts equations (based on the numerical model [4]) and the conforment assessment of the components of the resistance for each simulated case in accordance with (1). It was shown that the force on two segments of the acceleration (see region II in Fig. 1) is almost completely determined by the power of the massacers of proportional acceleration. The coefficient of attached masshas is a constant CA = 0.5, which is consistent with the results of many studies conducted for the sphere [5]. Thus, the total contribution of forces on segments of acceleration of OS Zhuchkova, A.N. Nuriev 51 in the framework of the full period of movement is approximately equal to zero, and, consequently, the directed movement of the viborobot is the result of forces acting on the direct and refundable phases of the movement (see region I, III in Fig. 1). On both phases, according to representation (1) in the absence of acceleration, force is determined by the hereditary and quast -statational components, the coefficients of these forces on the phases are determined by the following formulas: C+D = C+H+C+ST = 〈F〉+U2+, C - D = C --H +c -