Materials of the Youth School-Conference Literature 1. Petrenko O.E., Nechipruk V.V., Babyuk D.P. Instability and oscillation in the model of electrocatalytic recovery, taking into account the external resistance of the chain (quasi -is -resistant control) // Electrochemistry. - 1998. - T. 34. – No. 6. - S. 619–626. 2. Schepakina E.A. Sobolev V.A. Reduction of models and critical phenomena in macrokinetics. - M.: Fizatlit, 2010. - 319 p. 3. FIRSTOVA N.M., Schepakina E.A. Modelling of Critical Conditions for An Electrochemical Reactor Model // Procedia Engineering. - 2017. - V. 201. - P. 495–502. 4. FIRSTOVA N.M. Conditions for the Critical Phenomena in A Dynamic Model of An Electrocatalytic Reaction // Journal of Physics: Conference Series. - 2017. - V. 811. - P. 151–175. 5. FIRSTOVA N.M., Schepakina E.A. Study of Oscillatory Processes in the One Model of ElectroChemical Reactor // Ceur Workshop Procedings. - 2016. - V. 1638. - P. 731–741. Invariant Surface of Variable Stability in the Model of the Electrocatalytic Reaction N.M. FIRSTOVA The Paper Presents The Model of the Electrocatalytic Reaction Underlying The ElectroChemical Reactors Actors. We Take The Geometric Approach and the Theory of Integral Manifolds a Basis of Oour Investigation. We Construct the Multidimensional Invariant Surface of Variable Stability (So-Called Black Swan). As a Result, We Show That this Surface Consists of the Canard Trajectories Simulatical Regimes for Various Initial Data. Keywords: Singular Perturbations, Critical Phenomena, Canars, Black Swans, Invariant Manifold. UDC 004.82 Automatic description of the structure of documents of a mathematical collection based on Ontologies Sh.M. Khaidarov1 1 15jkeee@gmail.com; Kazan (Volga) Federal University, Institute of Mathematics and Mechanics. N.I. Lobachevsky describes the methods of forming a semantic presentation of documents that are part of digital libraries. These methods are based on ontologies describing scientific documents, as well as methods of semantic analysis of unstructured data and transferring them into an machine -readable form. Key words: automated processing of scientific documents, semantic documents, extraction of metadata, ontologies. The transition to the digital form of presentation of information requires the use of a full -time representative of the cooperation of the cooperative, the noe -filing data about it (including metadata) in order to further process them throughout the life cycle of scientific publication. Features of this transition are described, for example, in the works [1, 2]. The process of forming cyphatic documents differs from the traditional processes of preparing paper publications. Sh.M. Khaidarov 151 These differences are so great that the transition to the digital form of the presentation of information is usually called the "digital revolution." The work describes the method of forming a semantic presentation of documents included in the digital scientific collection. This technology is based on the analysis of the structure of documents and their stylistic features. Thus, an attempt has been made to connect two technologies: processing unstructured data and transferring them to a machine -readable form. One of the modern requirements of the cattle, the possibility of their semantic processing is reduced. In order for the scientific document to be machine -readable, each of its elements should be marked with special marks that form the so -called metadata document. Currently, there are many options for the presentation (and subsequent storage) of documents with metadan. The most popular of them are semantic marking languages. One way to formalize such markings is the use of ontologies. There are many ontologies developed for different purposes, in particular, there are ontologies to describe the structure of the document [3, 4]. Traditionally, digital scientific documents are stored in an unstructured form, focused on the layout (such as .pdf, .Tex, .docx), so such documents are difficult to process and classify (see [5, 6]). To manage the collections of such documents, the development of additional tools and services is required. The most typical tasks are: the organization of search services, clustering documents, the search for similar articles and others. To implement these services, it is necessary to use the tools of text analytics, in particular, methods for separating metadata based on the structure of documents [5, 6, 7, 8, 9]. For example, in [5, 6] it is proposed to create metadata of scientific publications, using regular expressions, as well as formatting information. The corresponding algorithm is reduced to the transformation of documents from the formats .docx, .pdf into documents with XML damping and to syntactic analysis of the text based on the results of its formatting. To describe the structure of scientific documents, special ontologies have been developed (see, e.g., [1-4, 6, 10]. For the semantic structuring of digital content, they use Ontologies Swan, Skos, Cerif and Spar (see [3, 10]) . The last