The Existence of Entropy Solutions of Anisotropic Ellipents with Variable Exponents of Nonlinearites in rn a.sh. Kamaletdinov, L.M. Kozhevnikova  In the space Rn we consider a certain class of anisotropic elliptic equations with variable exponents of nonlinearities and the L1-right-hand side.The existence of entropy solutions in anisotropic Sobolev spaces with variable exponents is proved. It is estable with Constructed Entropy Solution is a Renormalized Solution of the Problem. Keywords: Anisotropic Ellipptic Equation, Nonlinearity Variaans, Entropy Solution, Renormalized Solution. UDC 539.3, 534.1, 532.5 On the conservative stability of the elastic and hydraulicized systems D.V. Captains1, M.E. Suslova2, O.S. Egorova3 1 dis-kdv@mail.ru; National Research of the Russian State University named after N.I. Lobachevsky, Institute of Information Technologies, Mathematics and Mechanics 2 Mariya.suslova.96@mail.ru; National Research Nizhny Novgorod State University named after N.I. Lobachevsky, Institute of Information Technologies, Mathematics and Mechanics 3 Olesya.egorova.12@mail.ru; National Research Nizhny Novgorod State University named after N.I. Lobachevsky, the Institute of Information Technologies, Mathematics and Mechanics conducted a study of conservative stability of a hinge -fixed loaded rod on an elastic base and a hinge -fixed pipeline on an elastic base that transports fluid flow with constant speed. In the study, the method of separating variables and the bubnov -galerkin method using Krylov and Polynoma functions as comparison functions are used. Key words: rod, pipeline, elastic base, conservative stability. The work is devoted to the study of the conservative stability of elastic and hydraulic instrumental systems, when the loss of stability does not depend on friction and other non -custody forces and manifests itself in the form of monotonous growth of deformation. In contrast to an unconditional loss of stability, when the initial equilibrium state of the system is replaced by motion in the form of vibrations that grow in a linear case, conservative loss of stability is characterized by a change in stable equilibrium states. The following systems are considered as examples: a jointly fixed loaded rod on an elastic base of a ishairbly fixed pipeline on an elastic base transporting the fluid flow with constant speed. The study of the stability of a hinge -fixed rod on the elastic base, as in the case of its absence, is carried out using the method of separation of variables [1]. As a result, expressions were obtained for calculating critical power and to determine the number of the form corresponding to the loss of stability. In 64 materials of the Youth School-Conference, the case of a hinge-fixed pipeline on the elastic base using the method of separating variables, an analytical expression was obtained to calculate the critical value of the fluid flow rate for a simplified task and expression to determine the number of the form corresponding to the loss of stability. Also, for this task, in general form, a study of the determination of the critical velocity of fluid flow using the bubnov -galerkin method was carried out. As a system of basic functions, the functions of Krylov are taken for a hinge -fixed rod [2] and polynomes that satisfy the boundary conditions and have the property of orthonomination. In the study of stability, the criterion of Raus -Gurvitsa is used. The research results showed that loss of stability has the nature of divergence in a specific form of deformation. The number of stability loss form depends on the coefficient of stiffness of the base. The analytical expression that determines the critical flow rate obtained for a simplified model using the method of separating variables is confirmed by studies conducted using the Bubnov -Galekin method without this simplification. The result retains its significance both when using a three -fashioned approximation, and when using single -fashioned approximation in the form in which stability loss occurs. The work was carried out with financial support to the RNF (Grant No. 16-19-10279). Literature 1. Smirnovol. V., Captain. In .. the dynamics of an elastic compressed rod in case of loss of stability: a training and methodological manual. - N. Novgorod: Nizhny Novgorod State University, 2010. - 20 c. 2. Korenevb. G., Rabinovichi. M. .. Handbook on the dynamics of structures. - M.: Stroyizdat, 1972 .-- 511 p. Conservation Loss of Stability in Elastic and Hydro Elastic Systems D.V. Kapitanov, M.E. Suslova, O.S. Egorova Westdy Conservation Stability of a Loaded Articulated Rod on An Elastic Base and Articulated Pipeline on An Elastic Base Which Transports Liquid with A Constant Speed. TheMethod of Separation of Variabs and the Bubnov-GalerkinMethod with the Krylov Functions and Polynomials a Comparison Function Has Been Ussed. Keywords: Rod, Pipeline, Elastic Base, ConservATive