Development of the Android application "Informer of the CubSU" N.V. Potapova1, R.Yu. Selimov2 1 potapova50@gmail.com; Kuban State University 2 Selimov@gmail.com; The Kuban State University describes the implementation of the Information SPIS CUBGU student information system based on the Osandroid, oriented, in particular, to students of Kuban State University. Key words: Android application, information protection, United Council of students, Kuban State University. The development strategy of the information society in the Russian Federation for 2017-1203 has set specific goals and strategic national priorities of the Russian Federation with the development of the information society. It is necessary to form an information space, taking into account the needs of citizens in obtaining high -quality and reliable information, the development of information and communication infrastructure, as well as the creation and application of Russian information and communication technologies, and ensuring their competitiveness at the international level. The United Council of Students of Kuban State University (hereinafter referred to as OsokubSU) was created in 2013. During the work of OOSOBU, it included student councils of 17 faculties and 12 student organizations were created. The total asset is more than 5,000 people. This determines the Kuban State University and the United Council of Students, in particular, their Information. Mobile phones have long ceased to be a luxury and every modern person has. They cope with their function perfectly - support communication between people. At the same time, the smartphones have recently appeared, but already firmly settled in our lives are so functional that it is difficult to say what they do not know how. In fact, the smartphone has become a small copy of the computer, which you can constantly have with you and exchange information from anywhere in the world with its help. Nowadays, there are more and more smartphones, communicators, tablet PCs and other types of devices convenient for use both in everyday life and in the educational or work process, are available on the basis of the Android OS. Based on this, it was decided to create the Informer of the CubSU, which made it possible to translate all the activities of our organization into electronic form. The Informer of the CubSU application allows students to: • view the current news of student councils; • monitor the posters of events; • be among the first to learn relevant information about the university; • receive information about each faculty and its activities; 108 Materials of the Youth School-Conference (A). Installation on the Play Store (b). View news feed Fig. 1. An example of working with an informer • receive push notifications; • Communicate with the chairmen of organizations and faculties. The InformerosokubSu application is available for downloading to any user, whether it is a student, a teaching personnel employee of the Kuban State University. Our information site is an excellent indicator of the development of the information society in the educational sphere of the Russian Federation and KubSU, in particular. The remote application server operates on the basis of Ubuntu Server 16.04, Nginx is selected as a web server, and the database server is Mariadb, a branch from the MySQL DBMS. The scripts launched on the server are written on PHP7, the result of their work - data in JSON format - are sent to the client part of the application, where they are subjected to parsing and, subsequently, are displayed in a form convenient for the user. The client part is developed using the development environment (IDE) Android Studio (version 2.3) using the Java programming language. The interface elements are built using XML - markings. In addition to Java - N.V. Potapova, R.Yu. Selimov 109 and XML - files, the project includes assembly scripts of the GRADLE assembly system. Software modules are divided into external (third -party projects) and internal. Moreover, the latter, in turn, are divided into the following groups: Global, Push, Activity, Adapter, UI, Util, Stuff, Parser, Config, Cache, Network, Fragment, Service, Radio and others. Global - Global variables and constants, Push - ensuring instant notifications, Network - Work with the Network, Service - background services of the application, Radio - stream radio, config - work with configuration, CACHE - implementation of cache of materials, StuFF and UTIL - aid. UI - non -standard elements of the interface, Parser - Pariser JSON, Activity - interface screens code, Adapter - implementation of lists scrolling, Fragment - control of interface elements. Rice. 2. An example of working with an informer consider principrobots. The user causes the start of the start of loading the material, for example, like a tape, thereby updating news, events, etc. This entails the sending of a request to the server with the parameters of the quantity of the data requested, information about the OS, its version, and