Materials of the Youth School-Conference we conclude that the possibility of introducing the parameter is confirmed. Next, a check is made that the client will not be able to change the parameter T (for example, increase), since in this case the signature is no longer performed. The client will not be able to change the signature either. Literature 1. Epishkinaa. V., Shimkivm.Ya. Razzor and analysis of cryptographic circuits implementing the electronic signature “blind” // Safety Inf. tech. - 2015. – No. 3. - p. 51–58. 2. ABEM., Fujisaki E. How to Date Blind Signatures // Advances in Cryptology. - Aisacrypt’96, Springerverlag, 1996, Lncs 1163. - P. 244–251. 3. Huangzheng, Chenke-Fei, KouWei-Dong. Untraceable Partially Blind Signature Based on Dlog Problem // J. Of Zhejiang Univ. Science. - 2004. - V. 5. - No. 1. - P. 40–44. 4. Horster p.michelsm., Petersenh. Efficent Blind Signature Schemes Based on the Discrete Logarithm Problem // Univ. Of Technol. Chemiitz-Zwickau, Techn. Report TR-94-6-D. - 1994. - 5 p. On Some Schemes of Partially Blind Signatures Using the Complexity of the Discrete Logarithm Problem A.I. Ziyatdinova The Paper Describes New Examples of Partially Blind Digital Signatures Based on the Complexity of the Discrete Logarithm Problem. Keywords: Programming Contests, Informatics Olympiads, Combinatorial Tasks. UDC 372.851 Development of mathematical tasks for students of engineering areas in LMS Moodle T.V. Zykova1 1 zykovatv@mail.ru; Siberian Federal University, the Institute of Space and Information Technologies in the work provides a description of the application of the editor of the formulaseris to create mathematical tasks in LMS Moodle for an electronic training course in mathematical alaziza. The course was created as part of a model of electronic training for students of engineering areas of the Space and Information Technologies of the Siberian Federal University. Key words: information and communication technologies, mathematical competence, electronic training courses, electronic training, LMS Moodle, Wiris. Currently, in world standards of engineering education, changes are taking place related to the use of information and communication technologies in training, the modern level of development of which opens up great opportunities for their use. In our country, the requirements of the Federal State Educational Standard in T.V. Zykova 59 suggest the use of interactive forms of learning. The combination of traditional forms of lecture and practical classes with independent homework in online mode using a personality-oriented web environment contributes to a deeper assimilation of the material. Working with an electronic training course allows the student to form competencies and evaluate his knowledge both in classrooms and in the framework of independent work at any time convenient for him at the expense of remote access, and the teacher-monitor such educational and cognitive activities [1]. In 2010, the Institute of Space and Information Technologies of the SFU launched a project to create an educational environment on the basis of LMS Moodle, the European system of leading training (Learningmanagement System - LMS). On the platform of this system, electronic training courses (EC) for students were created. Difficulties in creating such courses are created by the lack of universal technology, in particular, this concerns the choice of didactic materials. Students' training takes place in a combination of traditional forms of lecture and practical classes with independent homework in an online mode using a personality-oriented web program. Control tests are carried out in LMSMOODLE. The materials of each course are represented by modules corresponding to the studied topic of mathematical discipline. A large drawback of the services built in Moodle in the creation of mathematical tasks is the lack of variability, that is, the teacher constantly has to update them. Such problems can be avoided using the Wiris editor, which can be integrated with LMS Moodle. Wiris Editor is an editor of formulas (also called the editor of equations), which is completely written in HTML4 and JavaScript languages ​​and is maintained by mobile devices. It is compatible with web pages based on HTML5 and allows you to program tasks, get their variability, as well as full graphic visualization. The Wiris editor system itself suggests that a lot of settings are always used to program each task: type of answer (test, formula, number), type of comparison of the reference response with the introduced (equality, equivalence, literary equality), etc. Additional settings, for example, are possible, for example , simplifying or decomposition to the multipliers of the introduced response for comparison with the reference. Each task must be algorithmized and programmed. Thus, variability of tasks is achieved. A more detailed example of using wiris can be considered in work [2]. The integration of LMS Moodle with the Wiris editor opens