A study of the behavior of a piece of line-linear display on the boundaries of related areas with different dynamics A.V. Malyshko1, T.A. Trifonova2 1 Anna.trifonowa2012@yandex.ru; Kazan National Research Technical University named after A.N. Tupoleva 2 Anna.trifonowa2012@yandex.ru; Kazan National Research Technical University named after A.N. Tupoleva in the work studies a dynamic system set by one-dimensional line-linear display with two parameters. A study of the behavior of this display on the boundaries of related areas of parameters, where the system has different dynamics, was conducted. Key words: dynamic system, a piece of linear display with two parameters, a boundary transition. Currently, discrete dynamic systems are increasingly being studied, generated by piece-line-line and curly-grooved one-dimensional display. Mathematical models built with the help of such systems are widely used in radiophysics, robotics, energy, economics, ecology, the study of the laws of development of financial markets, and a description of biological populations. For the tasks of applied nature, studies of discrete dynamic systems are of great interest, determined by the piece of line-linearly display, set using three or more linear functions. Particular attention is paid to the study of the dynamics of display with parameters, including their chaotic behavior, as well as changes in the behavior of the system during crossings through the boundaries of adjacent areas with different dynamics [1–4]. The work studies the features of the behavior of a dynamic system generated by a piece of line-linear dispation F, on the boundaries of related areas of parameters, where the display has different dynamics. This display is a sufficiently general line-line display set by three different linear functions with two P and Q. In the course of a study of non -vegetable voduperidic points, the plane of parameters (p, q) was divided into areas with the same dynamics. For the boundaries of adjacent areas, a study of dynamic behavior of display f was carried out, the conditions for the existence of attractive and repulsive fixed points and periodic orbits were determined. Web and bifurcation diagrams corresponding to the boundaries of areas with different dynamics of display were built. The most interesting results were obtained on the boundaries of areas of parameters in which the behavior of display F is chaotic. 74 Materials of the Youth School-Conference Literature 1. Sushko I. et al. Bifurcation Structure of Parameter Plane for A Family of Unimodal Piecewise Smooth Maps: Border-Collision Bifurcation Curves // In: Bischi, G.I. & Sushko I. (EdS.) Dynamic Modelling in Economics and Finance. Chaos Solit. FRACT., 2006. 2. Jianxin Liu, Xuan Zhang, Zhiming Li, Xuling Li. A TENT MAP BASED Conversion Circuit for Robot Tactile Sensor // Journal of Sensors. - 2013. - V. 2013. - 5 p. 3. Wang Shuang-Xin, Li Han, Zhang Xiu-Xia, Wang Zhi-Qin. Nonlinear Predictive Load Control of Boilerturbine-Generation Unit on Chaos Optimization // 2nd Chaotic Modeling and Simulation Int. Conf. -Crete, Greece, 1–5 June, 2009. 4. Tramontana F., Gardini L., Westerhoff F. Intricate Asset Price Dynamics and One-Dimency Discontinous Maps // In: Puu T., Panchuck a. (EDS.) Advances in Nonlinear Economic Dynamics. Nova Science Publishers, 2010. Behaviur Investigation of Piecewide Linear Map on the Borders of Complement areas with different dynamics a.V. Malyshko, T.A. Trifonova in the Paper, A Dynamic System Given by A Piecewise Linear Map with Two Parameters is Consedered. IS Investigated Behavior of the Map on the Boundary of Two Adjacent Domains Having DistINAMICS. Keywords: Dynamical System, Piece-Wise Linear Map with Two Parameters, Border Collisions. UDC 519.7; 512.581 On the analogues of the protocol Mor, the formation of a common secret key based on 2-Categories S.N. Maltsev1 1 fofka1994@yandex.ru; Kazan (Volga) Federal University, the Institute of Mathematics and Mechanics is being built a protocol for the formation of a common secret key on the 2 Category platform. Key words: cryptography, 2-cathegors, protocol for the formation of a common secret key, Mor. In this work, a well -known protocolmor is modified [1, p. 57], [2]. The basis of the modification is the use of the new algebraic platform-2-categories. Determination of 2-categoric canine, for example, in the book [3, p. 312]. We consider four options for the protocol for the formation of a common secret key that are similar to the Mor protocol. The vertical multiplication of 2-morphisms in 2 cavers will be indicated by a point, horizontal-a circle. Consider the first version of the protocol for the formation of a common secret key. Let there be open data: 2-cathegors K, 2-shooter species