Materials of the Automorpism Group of Formal Matrix Rings D.T. Tapkin ISOMORPHISM PROBLEMWAS Studied for Upper-Triangular Formalmatrix Rings and For Formalmatrix Rings with Zero Trace Ideals. Explicit Isomorphism Criteria Was Found. For SPECIAL CASE of Formal Matrix Rings It Was Shown that All R-Automorphisms are Inner. Keywords: Formal Matrix Rings, Zero Trace Ideals, Isomorphism, Automorphism, Inner Automorphism. UDC 517.956.25 massive sets and theorems like Liwill V.V. Filatov1 1 vladimfilatov@yandex.ru; Volgograd State University, Institute of Information Technology The article discusses the solutions of one semi -linear equation on arbitrary non -membranous Riman varieties with an empty edge. The relationship between the existence of non -trivial limited decisions and the existence of Lmassist sets has been proven. Keywords: massive sets, Lyuville type theorems, elliptical equations, Rimannes of diversity. This work is devoted to the study of the relationship between the existence of non-trivial limited decisions of the equation LU = ∆U −U (| u |) = 0, (1) and the existence of L-massive subset, on an arbitrary uncomplete Riemannoma Model. Hereφ (Answers) —the -nocked, monotonously non -rotating a continuously differentiated function at lection. This topic is directly related to Lyuville theorems. The currently considered classical formulation of Lyuville theorem claims that any limited harmonic function in RN is an identical constant. Traditionally, the following approach to LiUville typeorems is carried out. Let a class of functions A and the Elliptical operator L. may be a variety of functions in the Rimanno variety, they say that on m (a, l) Liullevo property is made if any solution to the LU = 0 equation, belonging to the functional class A, is an identical constant. Over the past few decades, a number of works have been published on the implementation of Lyuville theorems to arbitrary non -combact Riman varieties. Conditions for geometrimanum murals are given in terms of volume growth, curvature, fulfillment of isoperimetric inequalities, and so on. As an example, one of the first geometric results in the classification theory of Rimanum Men, namely the famous V.V. Filatov 145 Theorem from [1]. The latter argues that if, on diversity, the volume of the geodesic spite of the radius does not grow faster than the → φ, the languor has a parabolic type, that is, on it, any positive superharmonical functional is an identical constant. In [2] it was proved that there is a diversity in a non -trivial limited harmonic function and only when there is a smooth hyperpore dividing the diversity into two massive subsets. In a number of works, similar problems were considered for solutions to elliptical equations more generally than the Laplass-Belpam equation, for example, the stationary equation of the Squirender ∆U − q (x) u = 0. However, in the case of a stationary equation of the Schrödinger, the abnormal constant will not be its decision, therefore And the theorems of the Lyuville type are formulated a little differently. As an illustration, the following works can be brought [5], [6]. In [3], the relationship was obtained between the dimension of the spaces of decisions of the stationary equation of the Schrödinger and the existence of Q massive subsets. A number of works were devoted to the study of the solutions of a semi -linear equation (1), for example, [4], [7]. This work, in a sense, summarizes the result obtained in [3], in the event of a half -line equation. However, in [3], assessments of the dimensions of the decisions were obtained, which in this case is not possible. Let's move on to the exact wording. Let M - uncomproped Rimano diversity with an empty edge. The continuous function U, determined on the open set ω ⊂ m, will be called the submission (superfluous) equation (1), if for any regiong ⊂⊂ω and for any V - solution (1) that satisfies the conditions V ∈C (G), U | ∂g = v | ∂g, performed by U ≤ V (u ≥ v) in G. The open own subset of thecle pike will be called L-massive if there is a non-trivial submission of equation (1) such that {U = 0, x ∈ M \ ω, 0 ≤ U ≤ 1. This function will be called the internal potential of the set of PIT. It should be noted that the mentime -nuclear was introduced into [2] for harmonic functions, and later was generalized in [3] for the decisions of the stationary equation of the Schrödinger. Obviously, the L-massive set is not compact. Indeed, albeit ω is a compact L-massive set, but then for any solution, such that U | ∂ω = 0, due to the principle of the maximum, is made U = 0 on ω, and their triviality follows from the definition of subway. Theorem. On diversity, there is a non-trivial limited solution to the equation (1) then and only when there is an L-massive subset M Lemma 1. Let b ⊂ m-a pre-compact, open subset with smooth 146 materials, they say