Materials of the Youth School-Conference 7. Vantom Ya. Processing 2: Creative programming. - Packt Publishing Ltd., 2012. - 292 p. Exploring the Possibilites of Visualizing Data Using Language Processinge A.I. NEMKOVA in this Article, We Explore the Possibilities of Using the Open Programming Language "Processing" In Education: Directly in Learning Programming Languages ​​and Varius Platforms. Keywords: Processing, Processing Language in Education, Programming Language, Visualization, Exploing of Visualizing. UDC 372.851 Educational and cognitive tasks as a means of developing logical UUD in teaching mathematics in grades 5-7 L.I. Nurkayev1, E.R. Sadykova2 1 nurkaeva.liana@yandex.ru; MBOU "Pestrechinskaya secondary school No. 1 with in-depth study of individual subjects" 2 Sadikova-er@mail.ru; Kazan (Volga) Federal University The article considers educational and cognitive tasks as a means of developing logical universal educational actions in teaching mathematics in grades 5-7. Key words: teaching mathematics, educational and cognitive tasks, logical universal educational actions. The improvement of modern education has recently been largely associated with innovative approaches in the training of students. The current situation poses an important task for the school-the formation of a person capable of effective and productive activities, ready to carry out a quick search for decisions in various socially significant situations. The Federal State Educational Standard (Second Generation Standard) implies a set of requirements that are mandatory in the implementation of the main educational program of secondary general education. Requirements for the results of the development of the main educational program, its structure and implementation conditions take into account the age and individual characteristics of students in the receipt of secondary general education, as well as the significance of this level of general education to continue training in organizations engaged in educational activities, professional activities and successful socialization [3] . The federal state educational standard is based on a personality-activity approach. Unlike previously accepted standards, where the main thing was to obtain basic knowledge, the so -called knowledge, skills, in the second generation standard, the student’s personality and its development are a priority. And the development of personality, according to the Federal State Educational Standard, occurs through the development of universal educational actions (UUD), which act as meta -subject and personal learning outcomes. L.I. Nurkaeva, E.R. Sadykova 89 universal educational actions is the student's ability to learn, the student’s ability to self -improve, independently discover new knowledge, and form competencies. In other words, the student himself designs for himself the process of gaining knowledge, is an architect of the educational process, and thereby the child’s socialization and his preparation for life in the modern world are taking place. The main function of UUD is to create a condition and ensuring opportunities for the student’s independent implementation by the student of the learning process, including setting goals, the search for educational tools and methods for achieving the goal, analysis, evaluation and correction of the results [3]. Among universal educational actions, logical actions are distinguished. These actions are of the most general nature and are aimed at establishing connections and relations in any field of knowledge. In the framework of schooling, logical thinking involves the ability and ability of students to perform simple logical actions such as analysis, synthesis, comparison, etc., as well as composite logical operations (constructing statements, refutations and denial using deductive and inductive logical schemes). In the classification of logical actions, a comparison of specific-sensual and other data is distinguished in order to highlight the identity, differences, determination of general signs and compilation of the classification; identification of specific-sensory and other objects in order to include them in one or another. It is in mathematics that logical forms and relationships are manifested in an explicit form as a subject of students' assimilation. Logical actions, acting as instrumental basismathematics, also make it possible to streamline and systematize the existing mathematical knowledge, to outstand and construct new knowledge. Mathematics lessons are a “workshop” where the teacher is given the opportunity to teach children the art of solving problems, however, forming a special mindset in them, which allows you to see patterns, conduct observations, compare and put forward their guesses and hypotheses. An analysis of psychological, pedagogical, methodological literature showed that one of the means of the formation and development of logical universal educational actions is the use of educational and cognitive tasks. Educational tasks allow students to assimilate abumatic trips, increased computing culture, contribute to a more complete re