Materials of the youth school-conference of the bot with the wedge-shaped form of the case can be implemented both for the harmonic and two-phase laws of the movement of internal mass. For the case of a harmonic law, the movement of the system with the same parameters of fluctuations in the internal mass, possibly as the basis forward and forward, the choice of direction of movement is determined by the initial conditions. The two -phase law of fluctuations in the internal mass provides the only possible direction of the system. The maximum characteristics are achieved when the robot moves forward. Using a two -phase law, we can ensure a higher speed (up to 50%) in the liquid, as well as significantly increase movement efficiency (up to 3 times). The work was carried out with financial support from the RFFIA 16-31-00462 (Mol_a) Literature 1. Chernowkof.L. Optimal periodic movements of a two-mass system in a resisting environment // PMM. - 2008. - T. 72. - Issue. 2. - S. 202–215. 2. Bolotnik.N., figurine. The optimal control of the rectilinear movement of the system of the two bodies in the resisting environment // PMM. - 2012. - T. 76. - Issue. 1. - S. 3–22. 3. Egorova. G., Zakharovo. S. The optimal vibrorobot movement in the environment with resistance // PMM. - 2010. - T. 74. - Issue. 4. - S. 620–632. 4. Egorova. G., Zakharovo. S. The optimal quasistational movement of the vibro -bob in viscous fluid // Izv. universities. Mathematics. - 2012. - Issue. 2. - S. 57–64. 5. Nurieva.N., Zakharovo. C. The numerical modeling of the movement of the wedge -shaped two -mass vibro -bob in viscous fluid // Calculation. fur. Spl. med. - 2016. - T. 9. - No 1. - P. 5–15. Simulation of the Motion of a Two-Mass Wedge-Shaped Vibration-Driven Robot in a viscous fluid A.I. Yunusova This Paper IS devote to the study of the two-mass vibration-driven System Motion in the Viscous Fluid. The System Consists of a Closed Wedge-Shaped Body, Placed in a Fluid, and Movable Internal Mass. The Problems of Increasing of the Efficency of Vibration-Drive Robot Movement Are Consedered. The Numerical Solution of the Problem Is Carried Out in the Openfoam Package. Keywords: Vibration-Driven Robot, Viscous Fluid, Motion Efficiency, Openfoam. UDC 004.42 Formation of the vocabulary of the recommendatory system of automatic selection of UDC G.Sh. Yamalutdinova1 1 yamalytdinova@mail.ru; Kazan (Volga) Federal University, Institute of Mathematics and Mechanics. N.I. Lobachevsky is considered more well -known classifiers designed to systematize scientific information. The use of the recommendation system G.Sh. Yamalutdinova 165 to automate the classification process and Tanimoto measures to assess the proximity of words. The algorithm for the formation of the dictionary of the UDC classifier is given. The option of implementing the automatic selection service is presented. Key words: recommendation system, classifier, UDC, systematization of scientific information. In connection with the growth of scientific information, its systematization is of particular significance. The most famous classifiers that use all over the world are universal decimal classification (UDC) [1], library bibliographic classification (BBK) [2], mathematical object classification (the latest version of MSC2010) [3]. Due to the large volume of manual tables, the selection of the classifier index is a long and time-consuming process. You need to know the structure of the tables, understand the principle of compiling indices. Automation of this process is an important task. One of the solutions is the creation of a recommendatory system, the role of such systems has recently increased markedly (see, e.g., [4]). In [5], an algorithm for automatic selection of indices of the UDC classifier is proposed based on the analysis of the name of the article and the list of keywords presented by the author. Data work is development [6]. It is used to form the dictionary of the classifier, which allows you to more accurately determine the research area and choose the classifier index. Based on the data, the algorithm for replenishing the dictionary consists of the following points: 1) analysis of articles with the specified UDC and keywords; 2) the release of terms from the text of articles; 3) the use of ontology (see, e.g., [7]). Articles from the siteamath-net.ru [8], which indicate the ode of the block of keywords, were analyzed. To this end, scripts are written that highlight the necessary metadata from the HTML pages: the name of the article, UDC and the list of keywords. Due to machine processing, the received data has some inaccuracies. For example, in some magazines, the marking for the UDC index differs or in the title of the article there are symbols of HTML dampers. To reduce inaccuracies, additional processing was performed. The result was recorded in the XML representation developed in [6]. The automatic selection algorithm is implemented in the form of a service that uses the name and keywords of the article. The system compares the entered data with the terms presented in the dictionary, while using the measure Tanimoto t = nc na + nb