. Educational Objectives as a Tool of Developing Logical Universal Educational Activities in Teaching of Mathematics in Grades 5-7 L.I. Nurkaeva, E.R. Sadykova This Article Describes The Educational Objectives as a Tool of Developing Logical Universal Educations in Teaching Mathematics in Grades 5-7. Keywords: Educational Objectives, Logical Universal Educational Activities. UDC 514.763.7+512.5 Three-Two-tone of the pain with the covariantly constant tensor of the curvature of E.A. Onoprienko1, A.M. Shelekhov2 1 katrinonoprienko@mail.ru; Moscow Pedagogical State University 2 amshelekhov@rambler.ru; Moscow Pedagogical State University examines the infinitezimal properties of multidimensional medium three-tones of pain with a covariantly constant tensor of curvature (fabric b ▽ m); The basics of the classification of such fabrics by the rank of tensor torsion are laid. For three-tone b ▽ m rank ρ by the cardan method, an adapted reperus was built and the corresponding system of structural (differential) equations was found. It is proved that the three-tone b ▽ m rank ρ carries normal votkan, which is a group, and the corresponding factor-tone is regular three-tone. By integrating structural equations, new families of examples of multidimensional tritcanes of a special type and smooth loops of pain were found, which are a generalization of the midday 92 materials of the Youth School-Conference of the work of two aboles groups Lee. Key words: multidimensional three-tone, three-tone pain, group three-tone, elastic three-tone, G-tone, smooth Bola magnifier. Three-tone is the totality of three pair of transcendental smoothly smoothness Rdimensibility R at the smooth variety of m dimension 2R. Locally, you can always set the equations XI = const, y i = const and f i (x j, yk) = const; Hereinafter I, J, K, ... = 1.2, ..., r. Locally, three-tone is quite determined by the equation Z = F (X, Y), which connects the parameters X, Y, Z layers of the first, second and third fits passing through one point, and is called the Three-Two-Two equation. Due to the transversality of the layers, the Three-Two Equation is permitted (locally) relative x and y, therefore it determines the smooth-legged-sirop, which is called the coordinate quasi-group three-toneww. Following V. Plushka, we are considering three-tones with an accuracy to local dipheeromorphisms. A systematic study of multidimensional three-tones is laid by the work of black [1]. Using the approach of Kartana-Lapteva, M.A. Akivis has created an effective method for studying three-tones. For this metodoma, the essential results on the theory of multidimensional three-tones, see [2]. The medium tissues of the pain (BM fabrics) occupy a special place in the theory of fabrics. Their algebraic analogue - multidimensional smooth loops of Bola - following the analytical lups of the mufang in the proximity of their properties to Lee groups. Three-tones BM: 1) have a closed class of class 3-covariant derivatives of tensors of curvature are committees of tensors and curvature; 2) On the third placement of these tissues, the structure of the symmetric space naturally occurs. This symmetry has special properties that were studied by many authors. Three-tone BM were introduced by G. Bol in [3]. Their algebraic properties were studied by V.D. Belousov and other authors. The four -dimensional fabrics of the pain was fully described by A.D. Ivanov. BM fabrics of the arbitrary dimension was investigated by V.I. Fedorova, who, in particular, laid the foundations of the classification of six -dimensional BM fabrics. A special class of pain tissues - elastic fabrics or fabrics E - studied by A. M. Shelekhov, G. Balandina, K.R. Dzhukashev. Three-tone BM with the tensor of curvature of the minimum rank were considered by M. I. Antipova. Smooth loops of Bola were investigated by L.V. Sabinin and P.O. Mikheev. The following statements are proven. 1. Let the cobazis of differential forms ω 1 I and ω 2 I (I, J, K, K,. = 1,., R) on many state -time M is chosen so that the forms ω 1 I, ω 2 I and ω 1 I +ω 2 I are canceled respectively on the 1st, 2nd and 3rd fabric fabric fabrics b ▽ m. Then these forms satisfy the system of differential equations Dω 1 I = ω 1 j ∧ωij +aij k ω1 j ∧ω 1 k, dω 2 i = ω 2 j ∧ωij ∧Aij k ω2 j ∧ω 2 k, dωij = ωkj ∧ωik +B I j kl ω1 k ∧ω 2 l, (1) ∇aij k = −b i [j k] ℓ (ω 1 ℓ–ω 2 ℓ), ∇bij kℓ = 0, (2) E.A. Onoprienko, A.M. Shelekhov 93 closed relative to the external differentiation operation due to bi [j kℓ] = 2a m [j k a i | ℓ], b i j (kl) = 0, b i j kp a p ℓm = 0, a p j k bipℓm = a i pk b p jℓm +aij p b p b p b p b p b p b p b p b p b p b p b p b p b p b p b p b p b p b p b pm b p b pm Kℓm, bij kp b p lmq = 0, bipr sb p j kl = bipkl b p j r s. (3) Here AI J K - Tearn Terrin, BI J KL - curvature tensor. 2. Non -group four -dimensional fabrics b ▽ m does not exist. 3. The class of non-group six-dimensional fabrics b ▽ M contains only two three-twalrs-these are well-known elastic fabrics E1 and E2. Let the algebra determined by the tensorcore. The name of the tensor torsion is the dimension of the derivative of the algebraa ′. 4. Fabrics b ▽ m with the tensor torsion of the rank 0, r or r -