Materials of the youth school-conference Algorithm of Relation Extraction in Scientific Digital Collections E.M. Sabitova The Article Examines The Topic of Extracting Semance Reeific Digital Collection, Studies The Properties and Typed Links. An Algorithm for Extracting Links Between Authors in the Form of A Joint Publication Is Proposed. Keywords: Semantic Relation, Ontology, K - Nearest Neighbors Algorithm. UDC 66.011 asymptotic decomposition of the solution of the problem of supercritical fluid extraction in the polydisperse layer of highly oil plant materials A.A. Salamatin1 1 arthouse131@rambler.ru; Kazan (Volga) Federal University received asymptotic decomposition of the solution of equations describing the dynamics of supercritical fluid extraction in the polydisperse layers of ground plant raw materials. The first three members of the row were discharged, allowing to predict the dynamics of extraction with high accuracy. The fractional composition is characterized by three parameters: volumetric shares of particles of the fine fraction, the specific surface and the polydispersium parameter of the main, coarse -band fraction. Key words: supercritical fluid extraction, a narrowing nucleus model, asymptotic decomposition, distribution function, polydispersium. The task of interpretation of experimental data and the corresponding parameterization of the process models is one of the urgent problems of studying supercritical fluid extraction (SFE) of targeted compounds (oil) in polydisperse porous grain layers of ground plant raw materials. Currently, a large number of mathematical models have been created for these purposes. Detailization of the process for the case of high -handed raw materials in a macro -cutting approximation (at the level of granular layer), as a rule, is limited to taking into account the cocutatively filtration removal of extracted substances from the apparatus [1]. The interfacial mass exchange is determined by the mural of the diffusion of themar in the particles of raw materials. In this work, a spherical form of particles is supposed and a model of a narrowing nucleus (shrining Core - SC) is used [2, 3]. A set of parameters of the full model consists of an effective diffusion coefficient D, which determines the intensity of extracted substances inside the particles, and the fractional composition of the granular layer. The latter is usually characterized by the density of F (lection) the function of the volumetric distribution of particles according to normalized sizes (radii) Answers. Typical for real experiments is the existence of two brightly exposed mods in the area of ​​small (cil <1) and large (₽ 1) particle sizes. These fractions will be called, respectively, finely dispersed and coarse (main). The relevant distribution functions are bimodal, we will apply the same term in relation to A.A. Salamatin 127 of the believers of the granular layers [4]. Thus, the density F can be written in the form of F (ă) = α f1 (ă)+ (1–α) f2 (hole), (1) where the out-of-compound fraction of finely dispersed, F1 and F2, respectively, the density of the distributions of small and coarse fractions, and the characteristic values ​​of lection are much less or much larger than one. The solution to the FSE problem for arbitrary F was obtained in quadrators [5] relative to the curve 0 ≤ y (τ) ≤ 1 oil output (KVM) - a share of oil extracted from the apparatus by the time of dimensionless time τ. Typical for KVM is the presence of the initial line of linear growth (with a single inclination) during the time τ - on which particles of the fine fraction are mainly depleted. The following is a long stage of nonlinear growth, during which the oil is contained only in particles of the main fraction. In dimensionless variables at τ> τ - it is convenient to represent the solution in the following form 1 ≡ ∫ τ τ --y (τ) dτ k (τ), k (τ) = ∫ nder 0 s (τ ξ2) f (₽) dran, ( 2) 3 (1 - (1 - S (ω) 2/3) −2S (ω) = min {1, ω}, (3) where the exhaustion function is 0 ≤ S ≤ 1 is equal to the fraction of the oil extracted from the particle. Considering the representation (1) for density F, we obtain asymptotic times the solution of the solution (2) - (3) τ - = α + 2p 3 (1–α) α1/2 ă μ0 + 1–α 2 preds (1–α - 2 3 ωαα ) + O (₽ - 30), (4) y (τ) = α + 2p 3 --α ₽ (τ3/2 - (τ - α) 3/2) - 1 ξ20 1–α 6α2 (2α222) - α) +3 (1–α) (α2 −2ατ+4τ2)+12τ3/2 (1–α) pτ --α)+O (₽ - 30), τ> τ - (5) according to the small parameter ă 10 = ∫ +φ 0 f2 (perf) ă dă 1, which makes sense of the specific surface of the coarse fraction. The polydispersium parameter ω = ∫ +φ 0 ₽2 f2 (₽) dran = o (1) characterizes the dispersion of the density F2 and is equal to one, when the coarse fraction is represented by particles of only one size, and its density is expressed through δ-function of the diracle, f2 = Δ (oring --ran0). The next decomposition member contains more and more parameters and clarifies information about the oil output curve. The zero approximation that meets the compliance of the unit in decomposition (4)-(5), it turns out if you completely neglect 128 materials of the Youth School-Conference of the mass-rendering of a large faction. The next approximation takes into account the penetration of the depletion front according to the SC scheme deep into the particles of coarse