The dynamics of a piece of line-linear display with two parameters of I.I. Aksanova1, D.Z. Urazov2 1 ilsi050@mail.ru; MBOU "Vysokogorskaya secondary school No. 2" 2 urazova.99@inbox.ru; Kazan (Volga) Federal University conducted a study of a dynamic system set by a one-dimensional line-linear reflection F with two parameters. The areas of parameters are determined, in which the chaotic behavior of display f. Keywords: dynamic system, chaos, a piece of line. In the tasks of an applied nature, discrete dynamic systems generated by piece-line-line and curl-boring one-dimensional trains are increasingly used. For example, symmetric asymmetric tent-like display, set by a system of two functions with one or two parameters. At the same time, they analyze the sensitivity of such dynamic systems to small changes in the initial conditions and study the chaotic behavior of a given display. Such an analysis is relevant, for example, in robotics in the development of an analog-digital converter for tactile sensors, when studying the interaction of traders in financial markets [1–4]. The next natural step is the analysis of mathematical models, which are discrete dynamic systems, determined by the pieces of line-linear-based models set with the help of the help or more linear functions. The need for the results of such studies is noted in some recent applied works [4]. In the work, a dynamic system set by one -dimensional layer display with two parameters: f (x) =   x x ≤ ≤ 0, (b −2) x +1, 0 ≤ x ≤ 1, bx −1, x was investigated ≥ 1. This display is a sufficiently general line-linear display set by three different linear functions. The plane is a many parameter values ​​(a, b) - was divided into areas with the same dynamics, for each area a study of dynamic behavior of display f (x) was carried out. The conditions for the existence of motionless and double -period points were found, the area of ​​values ​​of parameters A and B were determined, where fixed points and two -period orbits are attractive or repulsive. Web diagrams corresponding to areas with different dynamics of display were built. The areas of parameters are determined in which the chaotic behavior of the display f (x) takes place. 20 Materials of the Youth School-Conference Literature 1. Lindstrom T. Dynamical Properties of Maps Fitte to Data in the Noise-Free Limit // Journal of Biological Dynamics. - 2013. - 7 (1). - P. 108–116. 2. Jianxin Liu, Xuan Zhang, Zhiming Li, Xuling Li. A TENT MAP BASED Conversion Circuit for Robot Tactile Sensor // Journal of Sensors. - 2013. - V. 2013. - 5 p. 3. Wang Shuang-Xin, Li Han, Zhang Xiu-Xia, Wang Zhi-Qin. Nonlinear Predictive Load Control of Boilerturbine-Generation Unit on Chaos Optimization // 2nd Chaotic Modeling and Simulation Int. Conf.,-Crete, Greece, 1-5 June, 2009. 4. Tramontana F., Gardini L., Westerhoff F. Intricate Price Dynamics and One-Dimensional Discontinous Maps // In: Puu T., Pancumpk A. Eds.) Advances in Nonlinear Economic Dynamics. Nova Science Publishers, 2010. Chaos in Dynamics of Piece-Wise Linear Map with Two Parameters I.I. Aksanova, D.Z. Urazova We Investigate a Dynamic System Given by A One-Dame-Wise Linear Map with Two Parameters. We Describe Domains in the Plane of the Parameters Where Dynamic Behavior of Themap Is Chaotic. Keywords: Dynamical System, Chaos, Piece-Wise Linear Map. UDC 517.9 Solving the problem of the assault - liville for the wave equation of fluctuations in the fluid in the limited pool of the variable depth of A.V. Bagaev1 1 A.V.Bagaev@gmail.com; Nizhny Novgorod State Technical University named after R. E. Alekseev is discussing the task of Liwill's task for the wave equation of the oscillations of the small amplitude of an incompressible ideal single -layer and two -layer fluid in a closed pool with an uneven bottom. Own modes of vibrations were found with a certain functional dependence and the depth of the pool. It is shown that own mods are expressed through the polynomials of Chebyshev of the second kind, and some properties of their own mod are given. A solution to the problem of Koshi in the form of a series according to their own mods of oscillations was built, and the coefficients of the series can be calculated as the coefficients of a number of Fourier on sinuses. Keywords: wave equation with variable coefficients, the equation of Klein -Hordon, the task of the storm - Liwill, the polynomial of Chebyshev of the second kind, fluctuations in the perfect fluid in a closed pool. The fluctuations of the inconspicuous ideal fluid in the rectangular cross -sectional channel within the framework of the theory of small water are investigated. As you know [1], such wave movements are described by the equation b (x) ∂2η ∂t 2 - ∂ ∂x (b (x) c2 (x) ∂η ∂x) = 0, (1)