. Three-Dimensional Quasifields Satiffying Both Distributive Laws S.V. Panov The Article Deals with the Structure of Semifields Which Arear Spaces Over Their Nuclei. Keywords: Quasifield, Semifield. UDC 519.7 On some schemes of partial darkened signatures, similar signatures of RSA O.Yu. Petrov1 1 olezhpetrov@gmail.com; Kazan (Volga) Federal University, the Institute of Mathematics and Mechanics The article contains new examples of partial darkened signatures. Key words: digital darkened signature, partial darkened signature, RSA. Introduction to darkened digital signatures (Blind Signatures) can be found in [1]. In this article, they are called the signatures of “blind”. An important variety of darkened signatures is partial darkened signatures (Partially Blind 102 Materials of the Signatures Youth School), first defined in the article [2]. In this work, a partially darkened signature is designed based on the known digital signature of the RSA. In our work, several more options for such signatures are proposed. It is an informally ideal-use darkened signature to explain by the example of using a conventional darkened signature to create electronic money (E-Cash) [3]. In the protocol described in [3], there is a buyer who wants to receive electronic cash from the bank for a remote purchase, and the bank, who signs a “blind”, sent by the buyer a darkened banknote identifier. At the same time, the problem arises: how to withdraw the buyer from the account the amount that he wants, and not some rigidly fixed. One of the solutions of this problem is the introduction of an open parameter in the signature of the amount that must be withdrawn from the account. We will use the designations and agreements from [3, p. 65–67]. In particular, N = PQ is the RSA module, E - encrypting exhibitor, ed = 1+onic (n) u, f - open unilateral function. Through the Banknot identifier, which is randomly generated by the buyer, through T - an open parameter that makes the meaning of the amount removed from the account is indicated. The value of D knows only the bank. 1) The buyer forms the number (f (m) r e) t (mod n) and sends the bank along with t. The number R (dimming) is mutually simply with n. 2) the bank signs: (f (m) t r et) d (mod n) = f (m) td (r ed) t = f (m) td r t (mod n). The resulting expression sends the buyer. 3) the buyer can remove the dimming, since it can be divided into r T. Through the way, s = f (m) td (mod n) by the electronic banknote in T units will be the three (m, (f (m)) TD, T) . Signature check: if the type of type is obtained (M, S, T), then you need to check the comparison: F (M) TD ≡ S TD (Mod N). We offer another option to use the open parameter t. 1) The buyer forms the number (f (m) r e) d, and sends the bank along with t. 2) the bank signs: (f (m) r e t) d (mod n) = f (m) d (r ed) t d = f (m) d t d r (mod n). The resulting expression sends the buyer. 3) the buyer can remove the dimming, since it can be divided into R. in such a way, s = f (m) d t d (mod n) by the electronic banknote in the T units will be the three (m, (f (m) d t d, t) . Signature check: if the type of type is obtained (M, S, T), then you need to check the comparison: F (M) D T D ≡ SD T D (MOD N). O.Yu. Petrov 103 General requirement for such protocols: the inability to change the parameter T after the signing is carried out. Consider another partial darkened signature, which is built on the basis of one signature from [4]. Here p, q - large simple numbers, q | p - 1, zp = {0.1 ,. . . , p −1}, and similarly ZQ. The element α ∈ ZP has order q. SN is a secret key of the bank, pn = αsn is an open key. 1) The bank selects a random number k̃ ∈ ZQ and calculates R̃ ≡αk̃ (mod p) 2) sends R̃ to the buyer. 3) The buyer selects random numbers a, b ∈ ZQ and calculates R: = r̃ - aαb (mod p) and m̃ = a - 1 (m + r) - r̃ (mod Q). 4) Together with M̃, the buyer sends the bank parameter t. 5) the bank signs the darkened message M̃, calculating s̃ ≡ (m̃ + r̃) sn t - k̃. 6) sends S̃ to the buyer, who calculates s = as̃ +b - r (mod Q). (M; r, s, t) - signed message. Signature check: αs ≡ p (m+r) tn rα −r (mod p). Literature 1. Epishkinaa. V., Shimkivm.Ya. Razzor and analysis of cryptographic circuits implementing the electronic signature “blind” // Nashp. Inf. tech. - 2015. – No. 3. - S. 51–58. 2. ABEM., Fujisaki E. How to Date Blind Signatures // Advances in Cryptology - Aisacrypt’96, Springerverlag, 1996, Lncs 1163. - P. 244–251. 3. Introduction to cryptography/ under the general. Ed. V.V. Yashchenko. -4th ed., Additional. - M.: MCNMO, 2012 .-- 348 p. 4. Horster p.michelsm., Petersenh. Efficent Blind Signature Schemes Based on the Discrete Logarithm Problem // Univ. Of Technol. Chemiitz-Zwickau, Techn. Report TR-94-6-D. - 1994. - 5 p. ABOUT SOME SCHEMES OF RSA-BASED PARTIAL BLIND SIGNATURAS O.Y. Petrov The Article Gives New Examples of Partial Blind Signatures. Keywords: Digital Blind Signature, Partial Blind Signature, RSA.