Materials of the Youth School-Conference 3 UDC 539.3 Modeling nonlinear deformations, taking into account the contact interaction of A.I. Abdrakhmanova1, L.U. Sultanov2 1 a061093@mail.ru; Kazan (Volga) Federal University, Institute of Mathematics and Mechanics. N.I. Lobachevsky 2 lenar.sultanov@kpfu.ru; Kazan (Volga) Federal University, Institute of Mathematics and Mechanics. N.I. Lobachevsky in the article proposes a methodology for a numerical study of the intense state of elastic bodies in the conditions of their contact interaction based on the method of finite elements. The study of the issues of contact interaction between solid bodies seems to be a very urgent problem due to the fact that one of the most common ways to transmit external efforts is contact interaction. The contact problem is solved using the method of final elements. To fulfill the conditions of contact under the end-element implementation, the method of the method is used. As an algorithm for finding the contact zone, an algorithm for projection of the nearest point is used. The use of these approaches involves the use of iterative solutions. Key words: elastic deformation, contact interaction, fine method, projection algorithm, contact end element. Kinematics is described by the left tensor of the Koshi -Grine (measure of the deformation of the Finger), the tensor of the spatial velocity gradient and the tensor of speed deformation. Physical relationships are set using the function of elastic potential. The tense state is described by the tensor of the true stresses of the Koshi -Eyler, which is determined in the current state. The specific potential energy of the deformation is introduced, which depends on the left tensor of the Koshi -Grine. To solve the problem, the step loading method is used. As a basic equation, a variational equation of capacities is accepted in the current state. After linarization, a permitting system of linear algebraic equations was obtained, where the increment of movements in the current time is unknown. To fulfill the conditions of contact under the end-element implementation, a fine method is used, according to which additional conditions for contact conditions are introduced locally on the element. For normal contact without friction, the functionality based on the functions of the penetration is formed. The functionality contains a parameter -spectrum, the increase in which leads to the limit to satisfy the conditions for not the penetration of bodies into each other. Contact functionality is added to the function of the elastic potential for two bodies. To search for the contact zone, the projection algorithm is used. The contact task formulated in variation in the use of this approach is nonlinear and Newton's iteration method is used to solve. 4 Materials of the Youth School-Conference, numerical implementation is based on the method of final elements, based on an eight-eight-eater polyline element. The contact element is approximated by the five -nuclear final element. All the necessary ratios were built for calculating the submissions in the form of dependencies on speeds. The following is the solution to the problem of Hertz on the interaction of an endless cylinder with a plane. A mesh with a high concentration of elements in the contact zone was chosen as of the end-element grid, and a little more rarefied in areas that are not subject to direct contact. Below is a deformed state of the cylinder and the distribution of contact stresses throughout the body of Fig. 1. Distribution of contact voltages and in the contact area: Fig. 2. The distribution of contact stresses in the contact area also solves the solution of the contact problem of pressing a rectangular stamp with a flat base into an elastic semi -space, the lower base of which is also limited by a completely stiff plane. Resolved tests geometrically nonlinear tasks demonstrate the performance of the proposed methodology. A calculation of a stressed state and contact pressure was calculated, when compared with the analytical data of which we get a coincidence with acceptable errors. A.I. Abdrakhmanova, L.U. Sultanov 5 Fig. 3. The deformed state of the elastic slab, limited by a hard surface and suppressed by a rigid stamp, the results were obtained as part of the state assignment of the Ministry of Education and Science of Russia (9.9786.2017/8.9). Literature 1. Konyukhova., Izi R. Introduction to Computation Contact Mechanics: a Geometrical Approach. - John Wiley and Sons Ltd, 2015. - 302 c. 2. Golovanova.I., Sultanovol. U. Theoretical foundations of computational nonlinear mechanics of deformable environments. - Kazan, 2008. - 164 p. Numerical Modelling of Finite Deformations with Contact Intration A.I. Abdrakhmanova, L.U. Sultanov in the Paper a Method of Numerical Investigation of the Stress-State of Elastic Solids with Contact Intration is Presented. To Perform the Contact Conditions in Finite Element Implementation The Method of P