Materials of the Youth School-Conference in a stationary state and motionless points X = 0 and X = LNR correspond to the replacement level of stock and reproduction. The parent supply over time constantly decreases and strives for 0. Thus, the reduction in the number of recruits that replenish the commercial stock leads to a decrease in the number of population with each generation, and, later, to its extinction. With R> E2 there are two fixed repulsive points X = 0 and X = LNR. There are also 2n-foldingorbites (N> 1), in addition, the existence of chaotic display behavior is possible, which is confirmed by bifurcation diagrams. Thus, the most favorable situation for the development of the fish population, the forecast of its number and good catch are the values ​​of the parameter from the interval 1 <r <e2. In this case, a stable state of the system is observed, in which the value of the replenishment of the fish population satisfies the requirements of the commercial catch. Discrete Dynamic Systems in Investigation of Population Models E.N. Matveeva, N.I. NASYROVA We Investigate Dynamics of the Mapping F (X) = R XE - X, X ∈ R, Depending On Values ​​of the Parameter R ∈ R \ {0}. We Interpret Results of Analytic Investigations for the Biologic Model by Ricker and Find Values ​​of R For Which The Sitation Is Most FavoraBle for Fish Population, ForsaSaSaSaSTION Keywords: Discrete Dynamical System, Biology Population, Ricker Model. UDC 514.5 On the singular integral equations on the counting set of closed indestructible curves S.R. Mironov1, L.D. Pogodina2 1 srmironova@yandex.ru; Kazan National Research Technical University named after A.N. Tupoleva - KAI 2 apogodina@yandex.ru; Kazan National Research Technical University named after A.N. Tupoleva - KAI for the singular integral operator, determined on the counting set of curves, analogues of the Sohotsky formulas were obtained. The issues of equivalence associated with this operator of the singular equation and the union with it of the regional task of Riemann on the counting set of indestructible curves are studied. Keywords: a singular integral equation, the regional task of Riemann, Sohotsky formulas. The characteristic singular integral equation k0 accord (t) onic (t)+b (t) sγ ventration (t), t ∈ γ, (1) and the equation K ′ 0≡≡ a (t) is considered ψ (t)+b (t) sγ (bψ) (t) = h (t), t ∈ γ, (2) E.K. Myshkina 81 in the case when the contour γ consists of the account of the account of closed indestructible curves γk, not invested in each other and having a thickening point Z0 ̸ = inous. On the specified functions A (t), b (t), f (t), h (t) and the desired functions onic (t) andψ (t) points of the contour γ are some conditions in terms of the fractal dimension γ. Since the contour of the stagnant -rejection, cinema, Singular integral operator Sγ is understood in the generalized sense. In the work, analogues of the formulas of Sohotsky for this operator were obtained and the equivalence of the singular equations (1) and (2) of the regional task of Riemann on the counting multiple indestructible curves were studied. Literature 1. Mironovas. R. Singular integral equations on the counting set of closed indestructible and fractal curves // Izv. universities. Mathematics. - 1998. - No 5. - S. 43–49. Singular Integral Equation On a Countable Set of Closed Non-Rectifiable Curves S.R. Mironova, A.Yu. Pogodina We Obtaine Anaalogs of Sochocki’s Formulas for An Singular Integral Equation for a Countable Set Nonrectifiable Curves. We Also Investigate Equivalence of the Singular Integral Equation, Associated with The Operator, and Its Conjugate to Some Riemann Bound Problems. Keywords: Singular Integral Equation, Riemann Boundary Value Problem, Sochocki Formulas. UDC 517.55 Formula for the deductible integral associated with the system of non -algebraic equations E.K. Myshkina1 1 Elfifenok@mail.ru; Siberian Federal University, the Institute of Mathematics and Fundamental Informatics in this article discusses non -algebraic systems of general equations. Food integrates are determined by the systems associated with the system. Formulas are given for their calculation and their connection with the sedate amounts of the roots of the system is established. Keywords: non -algebraic systems of equations, deductible integrals, degrees of roots. Consider the system of equations of the type FI (Z1,., Zn) = Pi (Z1,., Zn)+Qi (Z1,., Zn), I = 1.2 ,. . . , N (1) where Pi is the youngest homogeneous part of the decomposition of Taylor Fi (Z). The degree of all monomers included in the VPI is equalmi. Cularities of all monops are strictly larger than Mi. In the future, we will assume that the system of polynomials P1 (Z) ,. . . , Pn (z) - unpertured, i.e. Her common zer is the point 0 - the beginning of the coordinates.