Materials of the Youth School-Conference of UDC 512.556 Izomorphisms of the Salgebrus of Fully Fully Paul Positive Functions with the MAX-Examination of V.V. Sidorov1 1 sedoy_vadim@mail.ru; Vyatka State University describes the isomorphisms of the gratername of the supplies of half -floor of continuous positive functions. Keywords: half a continuous functions, grate of Podalgebr, isomorphism, Huguittic space. This work is a natural continuation of the article [1]; The introduction to [1] serves as an introduction to all work and contains the basic ideological prerequisites for the study. Recall several concepts and designations; For the missing refers to [1]. The half -ring is called the algebraic system 〈s,+, ·, 0.1〉, where 〈s,+, 0〉 is a community monoid with a neutral elemental of 0, 〈s, ·, 1〉〉〉〉〉〉〉〉〉〉〉〉〉〉〉〉〉〉〉〉〉〉〉〉〉〉〉〉〉〉〉〉 monoid with a neutral element, multiplication is distributed distributively regarding the addition of addition On both sides and 0 · A = A · 0 = 0 for all A ∈ S. The switching half -ring, different from the ring, each non -equal element of which is turned, is called half -floor with zero. It is easy to show that if s is a half -floor with zero, then ab, a + b ̸ = 0 for any a, b ∈ S \ {0}. Therefore, the many S \ {0} with the same operations of addition and multiplication forms an algebraic system that we will call half a floor. Let S - this is the field R real numbers, a half -floor with zero R+ non -negative valuable -pacifier -impose -incompatible ones, which are considered with interval topology. We denote the many continuous S-digit functions set on an arbitrary topological space X, with the intended operations of addition and multiplication. Then c (x) = c (x, r) –Ko, c+(x) = c (x, r+) - semi -ring IU (x) = c (x, p) - halfupol. The ring (x) is the algebra vodr. Podalgebra VC (X) will be any of its subset, closed relative to the addition and multiplication of functions and withstanding the multiplication of constants from R. By analogy, we call the subset A ⊆ C (X, S) by the submarine if f + g , F G, R F ∈ A for any F, G ∈ A and R SHER S. Thus, we will use the term “Podalgebra” in a broader sense than a ring that is simultaneously vector space. We denote through A (C (X, S)) the lattice of all the ZAMALGBR in C (X, S) regarding the inclusion ⊆ (we will denote strict inclusion with symbol ⊂), and through A1 (C (X, S)) - the lattice of all the ZAVALGEBR with 1. If a and b is the Podalgebras in C (X, S), then the exact lower line A∧b is A∩b, and the exact upper line a ∨b consists of the final sums of the functions of the type F1 ·. . . · FN, where F1 ,. . . , fn ∈ A∪b, n purpose. If s = r or s = r+, then a∩b ̸ =;, since 0 ∈ A∩b. Announcement, if s = p, then, possibly a ∩b =;. Therefore, we will consider an empty set; element of the lattice a (u (x)) - its zero. V.V. Sidorov 135 for any a, b ∈ R, put A ∨B = max {a, b} and a ∧b = min {a, b}. If in P, replace the usual addition to the MAX-contribution, we will get the P∨ Poop. For the half -floor, u∨ (x) = c (x, p∨) the concepts of Zagalgebra and grates of the Zagalgebr (with a unit) are determined in the same way as in the case of conventional addition. Podalgebra A call the B-Podalgebra if all functions from A are limited from above, SP-subdalgebra, if any function F ∈ A is strictly positive, i.e. Inf F> 0, and SPB-landscape, if it is b- and SP- Podalgebra at the same time. Minx - Podalgebra of functions that take at point X the lowest value. The topological space X is called Huguittov, if it is a homo morpho closed to the subspace of a certain Tikhon degree of R. Huguitt spaces, for example, compacts, that is, compact Haussorf spaces. Recall that the central result of work [1] is the theorem 2, according to which the topology of any Hughittic space X is determined by the lattice A1 (U∨ (x)) and, as a result (see the remark after theorem 2), the lattice a (u∨ (u∨ (u∨ (u∨ )). In other words, for any Hughitte spaces x and y, the isomorphism of the reshetoka (u∨ (x)) IA (u∨ (y)) or their subrapishes1 (u∨ (x)) IA1 (u∨ (y)) entails the homeomorphism of spaces X and Y. The following natural issues arise. Question 1. How are the isomorphisms of the Reshetoka (u∨ (x)) ia (u∨ (y)) and them under the lattice A1 (u∨ (x)) and a1 (u∨ (y))? Question 2. How are the isomorphisms of semi -field (x) iu∨ (y), which give rise to the isomorphisms of their sstelets (with a unit)? Question 3. Are the isomorphisms of the nasal hep (with the unit) of the floor of the fields (x) iu∨ (y), which are not generated by the isomorphisms of the semi -fields themselves? The main goal of this work is to answer questions 1-3. Let's make a number of preliminary comments. 1) Let α - isomorphism of the lattices A1 (U∨ (x)) and a1 (u∨ (y)), and αx - canonical isomorphism of the lattice A1 (spbu∨ (x)) and a1 (u∨ (βx)), Where x and y are Huguittic spaces, and βx is the Stone-Chekhov compacting of space X. When proof [1, theorem 2] it was shown that the correspondence is ffic: βx → βy set by the rule onic (x) = y ⇐⇒α (minx) = miny, x ∈βx, y ∈βy, is the homoomorphism of the spaces βx and βy , Moreover, the restriction of Сory ∣∣ x serves as the homeomorphism of the spaces X and Y. We identify the points of spaces βx and βy home