Materials of the Youth School-Conference 6. Petrukhin N.S., Pelinovsky E.N., Batsyna E.K. Furious waves in the atmosphere of the Earth // Letters to the ZhETF. - 2011. - T. 93, No. 10. –s. 625–628. 7. Talipova T.G., Pelinovsky E.N., Kurkinao.E., Ruvinskaya E.A., Giniytullina.r., Naumova.A. The unreasonable spread of internal waves in the channel of alternating section and depth // Funds. and SHE. Hydrophysics. - 2013. - T. 6, No. 3. - C. 46–53. 8. Bagaev A.V., Pelinovsky E.N. Configuration of the channel of alternating cross -section, allowing the unreasonable distribution of internal waves in the ocean // Magazine Central Volzhsk. matte. general. - 2016. - T. 18, No. 3. - P. 127–136. 9. Bagaev A.V., Pelinovsky E.N. Own mods of oscillations in a limited pool of a variable depth // Journal of the Central Volga Mathematical Society. - 2017. - T. 19, No. 2. - P. 126–138. 10. Suetin P.K. Classic orthogonal polynomials. - M.: Fizatlit, 2005 .-- 480 p. A Solution of the Sturm - Liouville Problem of Water Oscillations in the Closed Basin of Variable Depth A.V. Bagaev The Sturm-Liouville Problem for the Wave Equation of Small Amplitude Oscillations of An Incompressible Single-Layer and Two-Layer Fluid in Asin Basin Wit Uneve Uneve Uneve Uneve Uneve Uneve Uneve Uneve Uneve Uneve Uneve Uneve Uneve Uneve Uneve Uneve Uneve Uneve Uneve Uneve Uneve Uneve Uneve Uneve Uneve Uneve Uneve Uneve Uneve Uneve Uneve Uneve Uneve Uneve Uneve UNEVENENENENENENENENENEENEENEENEENEENELLENEL Eigenmodes of Oscillats are Found in the Channel, The Width and Depth of Which Are Functionally Associated and Vanish on a Frontier of Channel. It is shown that such eigenmodes are Expressed Through Chebyshev Polynomials of the Second Kind. SOME Properties of the Eigenmodes Are Found. The Solution of the Cauchy Preblem Isstructed in the Form of Series in the Eigenmodes, The Coefficents of Series Can Be Computed as Keywords: Variable-CoEfficient Wave Equation, Klein-Gordon Equation, Sturm-Liouville Problem, Chebyshev Polynomials of the Second Kind, Water Oscillats in Closed Basin. UDC 004.91 The method of extracting terms in digital mathematical collections R.R. Batyrshina1 1 r-batyrshina@mail.ru; Kazan (Volga) Federal University, Institute of Mathematics and Mechanics. N.I. Lobachevsky in the work considers existing methods for extracting terms. The algorithm of their extraction is presented, based on the method of using mathematical thesauruses. The method is implemented in Java. Key words: clustering, extraction of terms, thesaurus. The extraction of terms from scientific documents plays an important role in replenishment and in the development of various terminological resources, primarily mathematical thesis and ontologies [1], [2]. The replenishment of such resources manually is quite a laborious task. To facilitate this process, it is necessary to automate the process of extracting terms [2]. R.R. Batyrshina 25 Methods of extracting the terms, existing core of this time, in [3] are divided into three groups. The first group: thematic models based on the methods of clustering texts. Clastorization is a grouping of the document of the “similar” document collection on the basis of some measure of similarity. As noted in [4], the task of clustering is that all similar documents are placed in one cluster, and not similar documents are guaranteed to fall into different clusters. In [3], the following methods of constructing thematic models are proposed: an algorithm of K-medium and spherically K-medium, hierarchical agglomerative clustering, non-negative matrix factorization. Second group: probabilistic thematic models. Presenting each document in the form of a mixture under which each subject is a certain probabilistic distribution above the words. The following representatives of this category are considered in [3]: the method of probabilistic latent semantic indexing, latent placement of airship. The third group: the basic thematic model, in which the subtans are not distinguished and each document is considered as a separate subtem. Having examined the methods described above, we have developed our own algorithm for extracting terms based on the method of using a dictionary. Our task was to create a program that could return the findings found in the text, and together the dictionary, according to which the search is carried out. The program is implemented in the Java language, is able to perform the following actions: - accept the name of the file (file format .txt, .pdf format), and return its contents in the form of a line; - Follow the search for terms in the text using the mathematical dictionary we created. The method is based on the method of using the dictionary, that is, it is necessary to make a test whether the word from the text to the dictionary is included. In order to determine whether the word from the text and the term correspond to each other, it is necessary to calculate the percentage correspondence. Initially, the percentage correspondence for the word is calculated - how much percent the prefix in the word occupies. Then, the percentage correspondence for the term is also calculated. If both the word and the term prefix occupies 60 percent, the words correspond to each other. And since the word from the text coincided with the term, then returns