Materials of the School-Conference where S1 = √ (T G1) 2-T1, S2 = √ T 2 G22 +4 T 2 G3 G4-T1, and T and T1 are arbitrary numbers. The corresponding matrices A using these minors explicitly are written out according to formulas 1) –6) from the formulation of theorem 2. Literature 1. Akhtyamov A. M. to the uniqueness of the solution of one reverse spectral problem // Different. Equations. - 2003. - No. 8, - C. 1011–1015. 2. Akhtyamov A.M., Utyashev I.M. Identification of the regional conditions at both ends of the string at his own frequencies of oscillations // Acoustic Journal. - 2015. - T. 61. - No. 6. - C. 647–655. The Identification of Both General Boundary Conditions for the Sturm-Liouville Problem R.Yu. Galimov The Problems of Identify of Both General Boundability Conditions for the Sturm-Liouville Problem Its Eigenvalues ​​Are Investigated. For general boundary conditions, it is shown that in the case of an asymmetric potential the problem of identifying the general boundary conditions by all eigenvalues ​​has two solutions, and in the case of a symmetric potential there are infinitely many solutions (the class of boundary value Problems). It is also proved that, in the case of an asymmetric potential, two solutions can be obtained for four eigenvalues, if the rank of a matrix is ​​four, and in the case of a symmetric potential, the class of boundary value problems can also be Obtained from Three Eigenvalues.the Method of Solving the Problem and the Corresponding Examples are Given. Keywords: Sturm-Liouville Problem, Identification of Boundary Conditions, Inverse Eigenvalue Problem, Eigenvalue Problems. UDC 517.518.244 The use of extreme gifts and gifts for the search for global extremes of undifferentiated functions O.E. Galkin1, S.Yu. Galkina2 1 olegegalkin@ya.ru; National Research Nizhny Novgorod State University. N.I. Lobachevsky, National Research University Higher School of Economics 2 svetlana.u.u.galkina@mail.ru; National Research University Higher School of Economics, National Research Nizhny Novgorod State University named after N.I. Lobachevsky for the functions set on the subset of material linear spaces introduced the concepts of extreme gifts and extreme gifts. The application of these concepts is described for the search for global extremum of functions. The extreme sub- and gifts were found for continuously not differentiated functions of Takagi T (X) and Kobayashi-Grely-Takagi K (X) on the segment [0; 1]. Key words: global extremums of an undifferentiated function, extreme gifts and extreme gifts of function, continuously not Dif O.E. Galkin, S.Yu. Galkina 105 Feeting function of Takaga, continuously not differently differentiated by Kobayashi -Greesy -Takagi. Let X - the material linear space (VLP) and D is its subset. If the function is F: D → R, we will indicate through GR (F) its graph {(x, f (x)) | x ∈ D}, through sub (f) - its subscription {(x, y) ∈ D × R | y ≤ f (x)}, and through EPI (F) - its supra -schedule {(x, y) ∈ D × R | y ≥ f (x)}. The global maximum functions f on D are designated through Maxd F, and many points where it is achieved is through Argmaxd F. Similarly, the designations are Mind F and Argmind F. Through SUPD F and Infd F, we denote, respectively, the Supremum and the infection of the function F on D. Recall (see [1, § 1.18]) that the point of convex set is called the extreme, if it is not an internal segment lying in this set. The convex membrane of the set D will be denoted through Conv (D) or D̃, and many of its extreme points - through EXTR (D). We introduce the concepts of the extreme gift and the extreme gift. Determination 1. Let X - VLP and D ⊂ X. The extreme gift (respectively by the extreme gift) of the functions F: D → R Let's call the argument X (that is, the first component) of any extreme point (X, Y) of the many Conv (SUB (F)) (respectivelyConv (EPI (F))). The set of all extreme gifts (respectively of the gifts) of the Functions F on the multiple we will denote through Extrs A (F, D) (respectively Extre A (F, D)). Note 1. It is obvious that the equalities of min (f) = –Maxd ( - f), argmind (f) = argmaxd ( - f) and extre a (f, d) = exters a ( - f, d) are performed. Therefore, from any statement about maximums and extreme gifts, a dual statement about minimums and extreme gifts (and vice versa) follows. Drying 1. If X - VLP and D ⊂ X, then for any function F: D → R are the inclusion of EXTR (D̃) ⊂ Extrs A (F, D) ⊂ D, as well as EXTR (D̃) ⊂ Extre a (F, D) ⊂ D. Theorem 1. Let X - VLP, D ⊂ X and set functions f: d → r, g: d̃ → r, v: d̃ → R, and V is strictly positive on D. Let, in addition, strictly Convuls on d̃ function (g −m) · v, where m = supd (f /v +g) <mm. Then all points of the global maximum on D functions F /v + G are extreme gifts of the function F on D, that is, Argmaxd (F /V + G) ⊂ Extrs A (F, D). From the theorem 1, taking into account the comment 1, the dual: the theorem 2. Let X - the VLP, D ⊂ X and the functions F: D → R, G: D̃ → R, V are set