Materials of the School-Conference investigation [7]. For any function F ∈C 0H, R AKS | AK | ≤ (K +1 K (R2-1 2)) 1/2 for K ≥ 2. The work was performed with financial support of the RNF (project 17-11-01229). Literature 1. Polinkin E.S. About very convex sets and very convex functions // Tr. Intern. Conf., dedicated. The 90th anniversary of the birth of L. S. Pontryagin (Moscow, August 31-September 6, 1998). - M.: Vinity, - 1999. - T. 2. Non -hot analysis and optimization. - S. 66–138. 2. Polinkin E.S., Balashov M.V. Elements of convex and very convex analysis. - M.: Fizatlit, 2004. 3. Goodman A.W. Convex Functions of Bounded Type // Proc. Amer. Math. SOC. - 1984. - Vol. 92 (4). - P. 541–546. 4. Goodman A.W. More On Convex Functions of Bounded Type // Proc. Amer. Math. SOC. - 1986. - Vol. 97 (2). - P. 303–306. 5. Wirths k.-j. CoEFFICIENT BOUNDS For Convex Functions of Bounded Type // Proc. Amer. Math. SOC. - 1988. - Vol. 103 (2). - P. 525–530. 6. Starkov V.V., Shmelev N.A. Bigmolomorphic display of the circle to very convex areas // Sib. matte. Journal. - 2014. - T. 55. - No. 4. - S. 875–881. 7. Graf S.Yu. Harmonic Mappings Onto R-Convex Domains // Probl. Anal. Issues ANAL. - 2019. Vol. 8 (26). - No 2. - P. 37–50. On Harmonic Mappings Onto R-Convex Domains S.Yu. Graf in the Present Paper, We Discuss The Conditions of R-Convexity for the Image of the Disks Under Harmonic Sense Preserving Functions. The CoEFFICIENT BOUNDS For Harmonic Mappings of the Unit Disk Onto Rconvex Domains Are Obtained. Keywords: Harmonic Mappings, R-Convex Domains. UDC 517.54 On the distortion of a harmonic measure with local quasiconic display S.Yu. Graph1 1 sergey.graf@tversu.ru; Tver State University, Petrozavodsk State University in the report discusses new results regarding bilateral assessments of the harmonic measure of the border arcs with a local quasi -fifth circuit. Estimates were obtained in the terms of majority of Majorants M.A. Lavrentieva displaying function. S.Yu. Count 121 keywords: quasiciform and locally quasiconform display, harmonic measure. The concept of a harmonic measure [1], introduced by R. Nevannin in 1928 for the case of flat areas, plays an important role in the study of the boundary behavior of analytical functions, in the theory of potential and mathematical physics. Let D are the limited fins zordanov region on the complex plane C. Let the function gment be defined and continuous at the border ∂d area D. The symbol of Ucon (z) will indicate the solution of the problem of the airship in the area D with the boundary function ∗, i.e. Harmonic in area D and a function continuous in the closure D, which coincides with ∗ to ∂d. Determination 1. A harmonic measure of an arbitrary open set E ⊂ ∂d is called harmonic in D function ω (z, e, d) = Sup {U accord (z): onic ∈C (∂d), 0 ≤ently ≤χe ( ζ) For all ζ ∈ ∂D}, where χE is the characteristic function of the set E. In a particular case, when E is an arc or the final combination of arcs on the border of the single -link area D, the harmonic measure ω (Z, E, D) is the only limited solution to the generalized task of the conductor in the area of ​​the bordic values ​​of χe (ζ). The function ω (Z, E, D) determines the Borelev measure of the set E on ∂d. The concept of a harmonic measure is summarized in case of an arbitrary set E ⊂ ∂D and in case of greater dimension. Assessments of a harmonic measure in terms of logarithmic capacity, extreme distances or using the Berling projection theorem are devoted to a significant number of works (see, for example, [1, 2, 3]). In this message, it is supposed to discuss the nature of the distortion of the harmonic measure of the boundary arcs of the single -link zordanovsky areas D with local quasi -fences. Determination 2. Preserving orientation Homemorphism F of the region is called locally quasiconformal if f quasicaconforms on any compact from the field of D. Locally quasi -forming displays differentiated almost everywhere. Local geometric behavior of display F is described using a certain comprehensive characteristic µ F (Z) = FZ (Z)/ FZ (Z) or the first characteristic of M.A. Lavrentieva P F (Z) = 1+ | µ F (Z) | 1 - | µ F (z) | . In the general case, locally quasiconform display does not allow continuing to homeomorphism of closed areas and unlimitedly distort the lengths of the boundary arcs and modules of the families of curves in D. Nevertheless, the excesses of the distortion of the crooked family modules with local quasi -fences can be obtained, for example, in terms of majority of the characteristics P F F F F (see [4, 5]). Similar methods can be applied to evaluate the distortion of a harmonic measure in quasiconform or locally quasiconform display, which is demonstrated by the following new result. 122 Materials of the School-Conference of theorem. Let a single-leaf-free quasiconform display f of a single circle d = {z ∈ C: | z | <1} On a limited Zordanov, region D admits the continuation of F (ζ) = Limz → ζ F (Z) on a single circle T and has a nip