. Integration Over Non-Rectifiable Paths of Strong Rotation with Applications B.A. Kats  A number of contemporary publications are deling with transfer of the concept of curvilinear integration on non-rectifiable contours and applications of this concept to solving of boundary-value problems for analytic functions. There Are Obtained Various Important Results in this Field, But Untill Now there Known Classes of Arcs for Which Satisfactory Theory of Integration Is Not Developed. In the Pressent Report, We Discuss Recent Achievements Concerning These Problems. Keywords: Non-Rectifiable Path, Strong Rotation, Curvilinear Integral, Cauchy Type Integral, Riemann Boundary-Value Problem. UDC 517.53 Spectral approach to the regional task of Riman D.B. Kats1 1 katzdavid89@gmail.com; Kazan (Volga) Federal University, Institute of Mathematics and Mechanics. N.I. Lobachevsky we examine the dependence of the solvability of the homogeneous regional task of Riemann on the arc from the spectral parameter. The regional task of Riman is one of the classic regional tasks of complex analysis (see [1] - [3] and others). We give her homogeneous version. Given 172 Materials of the School-Conference oriented curve γ and function (coefficient) G (t), determined on this curve. It is necessary to find the holomorphic in c \ γ function φ (z) such that φ+(t) = g (t) φ - (t), (1) where theφ ± (t) are the limit values ​​of theφ (z) for z → t ∈ Γ on the left and right, respectively, and φ (φ) = 0. If γ is a curve closed by Zhordanov, then this formulation means that the limit values ​​exist, and the attitude (1) is true to any point t ∈ γ. But if γ is Zordanov an arc, then we cannot demand the existence of limit values ​​that satisfy (1) in the final points A and B of this arc. Instead, in this work we assume that the required function is limited to points A and B. We also include the spectral parameter λ in the coefficient G of the regional task, i.e., go to the problem φ+(t) = λg (t) φ - (t), (2) where λ ̸ = 0 is a constant multiplier. We consider the many s p (γ, g) of all values ​​λ ∈ C0: = c \ {0} such that the task (2) has non -trivial solutions, and call it the problem of the problem (1). Keywords: Riemann’s edge task, indestructible curves, indestructible curve, indipinate, fractal, fractals. The work was supported by the RFFI (grant 18-31-00060) and according to a special program of the Russian government, supporting research at Kazan Federal University. Literature 1. Gakhov F.D. Territory tasks. - Moscow: Science, 1977. 2. Muskhelishvili N.I. Singular integral equations. -Moscow: Science, 1968. 3. Jian-Ke Lu Boundary Value Problems for Analytic Functions. - Singapore: World Scientific, 1993. Spectral Approach to the Riemann Boundary Value Problem D.B. Katz We Study the Dependance of the Solvability of the Riemann Boundary Value Problem on Arc on a Spectral Parameter. The Riemann Boundary Value Problem Is One of the Classical Problems of Complex Analysis. Let User Its Homogenous Statement. We have an Oriented Curve γ and a function g (t) Defined on This Curve. We Seek for Holomorphic in C \ γ Function φ (Z) Such that φ+(t) φ - (t) φ - (t), (3) What φ ± (t) are the limit values ​​of φ (z) whether z → t ∈ γ from the left and from the right, respectively, and φ (φ) = 0. if γ is a classed jordan this formulation means that limit values ​​Exist and rangion (1) t ∈ γ. But IF γ is a Jordan Arc, We Cannot Require the Existence of the Limit Values ​​Which Satiffy (1) At the ends a and b of this arc. INSTEAD of this, We ASSUME that Desired Function is Bounded At the Points a and B. We Also Include The Spectral Parameter λ Into the Coefficient G of the Boundary Value Problem, I. E. We get to the problem φ+(t) = λg (t) φ - (t), (4) I.R. Kayumov, D.M. Khammatova, S. Ponnus 173 Where λ ̸ = 0 is a constant factor. We Consider the Set S P (γ, G) of all values ​​λ λ λ λ ∈ C0: = C {0} SUCH THAT PROBLEM (2) HAS A NON-TRIVIAL SOLULATION AND CALL IT THE Spectrum of Problem (1). The Research is Supported by RFBR (Grant 18-31-00060) and A Special Programme of the Russian Government Research at Kazan Federal University. Keywords: Riemann Boundary Value Problem, Non-Rectifiable Curve, Non-Rectifiability, Fractal. UDC 517.547 Boror inequality for the operator Cesaro I.R. Kayumov1, D.M. Khammatova2, S. Ponnusov3 1 ikayumov@gmail.com; Kazan (Volga) Federal University, Institute of Mathematics and Mechanics. N.I. Lobachevsky 2 Dianalynx@rambler.ru; Kazan (Volga) Federal University, Institute of Mathematics and Mechanics. N.I. Lobachevsky 3 samy@iitm.ac.in; The Indian Technological Institute of Madras, the Mathematics Department received an analogue of the Boror theorem for the Cesaro operator, operating in the space of functions, holomorphic and limited in a single circle. The asymptotic behavior of an analogue of the boron amount for this operator was also studied. Key words: Boron inequality, Operator Cesaro. Let d = {z ∈C: | z | <1} - only