Materials of the School-Conference The Regions of Stability/Instabide/Neutral Stability Separation and the Calculation of the Solution Pramameters in the Linear One-Dimensional Problem of Hydraulic Jump E.V. Semenko, T.I. Semenko  The numerical calculations are presented, related to the separation of the stability and instability regions and determination of their common boundary (the neutral stability region) and the solution parameters are numerically determined for the linear problem of hydraulic jump in the case of neutral stability. Keywords: Hydraulic Jump, Thehar Shallow-Water Flows Model, Stability, Instabide, Neutral Stability. UDC 512.71, 512.581.2 On the role of Algebr Proplicher-Roberts in quantum theory A.S. Sitdikov1, Z.Yu. Sungatullina2 1 airat-vm@rambler.ru; Kazan State Energy University 2 Zulfiya82@mail.ru; The Kazan State Energy University considers the mathematical structure of the algebra Proplicher-Roberts Oρ, which plays an important role in the theory of duality between abstract symmetric tensor with ∗ catachors and compact groups. Its role in the quantum theory of fields is discussed. A private example of constructing the representation of Oρ, which can be used when constructing physical models based on the representations of the algebrus observed, satisfying a special physical condition, which is called in the algebraic quantum theory “The criterion for the selection of Praplhera-Haga-Roberts”. Key words: tensor symmetric C ∗ -categoria, algebra Proplicherobertsa, representation. The introduction in their work [1] S. Proplicher and J. Roberts summarized the theory of the duality of Tanaki and Crane for non-abbess compact groups with the help of abstract symmetric monoidal C ∗ Category (duality of DR) in order to mathematical substantiation of non-ABBRULE SUBSTORY OF THE CANTERS systems [2]. At the same time, an abstract tensor with ∗ Category (instead of the category of representations of the group in the theory of Tanaki and Crane), which defines algebraic operations that are the necessary elements of a super-collection structure: the conjugation surgery, permissive symmetry and a composition (binary surgery of a tensor operation, are determined by a compact non-abstract group. works). A simple algebraic model based on the tensor C ∗ Category, generated by the tensor degrees of the ignorant representations of the SU group (2), was proposed by us in [3] for describing the non-Abeel super-collection structure of low-red systems, and duality for this model was proved by us in [4]. A.S. Sitdikov, Z.Yu. Sungatullina 309 convenient technical means when establishing duality DR is C ∗-albra, generated by endomorphisms ρ, σ, ... quasiocal c ∗-algebras of the observed a. Algebra A is an inductive limit of the algebra of the local observed AO: a = ∪o⊆m 4ao, (1) where o ⊂ m 4 is double cones [5], m 4-4-dimensional flat pseudoevclide diversity. The local structure of the algebra of the observed then can be represented as a covariant function a: k → c ∗ al g. Here K is a partially ordered directed set formed by double cones (forming the basis of topology m 4), considered as a category (where morphisms are set by the ratio of order O ≤ o ′ if o ⊆ o ′ and ⊘ ⊘ ⊘ ⊘ ⊘ ⊘ ⊘ ⊘ ⊘ ⊘ ⊘ ⊘ ∗ ∗ al g - Category C ∗-algebr, where morphisms are ∗ -comorphisms that retain the unit. The function a thus determines the network (a, ι) k c c ∗-algebr of local observed: a: o → ao, ιo ′: ao ′ → ao; o ′ ≤ o. The network (a, ι) K satisfies standard axioms of algebraic quantum field theory [5]. C ∗ -algebras Oρ, Oσ, ... generated by endomorphisms of the quasi-Kasilocal algebra A, are its subpalgrams and are called algebras of the boher-robrts (Dolgebra). These algebras play an important role in the quantum theory of field and allow us to describe the freedom observed in the space of the internal degrees (in the spaces of isospine, color, etc.). However, the theory of ideas of such algebra is not present, moreover, there is a hypothesis that these ideas cannot be classified. However, some examples can be built, but they will depend on the choice of endomorphism ρ. For example, the representations of the algebr of Kunts OG [2] (obtained from the category of tensor degrees of the endless guilberov space and which have the same mathematical structure as Oρ) were studied in work [6]. In this work, after a brief description of the structure C ∗-Algebra Oρ, we offer two types of its ideas. Algebras Oρ Let Tρ is a symmetric monoidal of C ∗-Category generated by the tensor degrees of the object ρ with the conjugation and dimension D (ρ) [1], multiple of 1ι (where 1ι ∈ End (ι) and ι≡ ρ0). For any k ∈ Z, we have an inductive system of banach spaces (ρr, ρk+r) → (ρr+1, ρk+r+1) → (ρr+2, ρk+r+2) → ... determined for r ∈ N0 so that k + r = 0, where display are set by the tensor multiplication on the right by 1ρ. We denote as Oκρ the inductive limit of this system of banana spaces. Note that OK ∗ ρ = O -Kρ and O0