THE BEST APPROXIMATIONS OF FUNCTIONS OF THE NIKOL’SKII–BESOV CLASS IN THE LORENTZ SPACE BY TRIGONOMETRIC POLYNOMIALS  G. Akishev  We consider the Lorentz space of periodic functions of several variables and Nikol’skii–Besov classes. WE Obtain Estimates of the Best Approximation by Trigonometric Polynomials with Harmonic Numbers from a Hyperbolic Cross of Functions from Nikol’s-Besov classes in the lorentz space. Keywords: Lorentz Space, Nikol’s - Besov Class, Approximations of Functions, Hyperbolic Cross. UDC 517.53 The optimal restoration of a derivative of a limited analytical function of river Akopyan1 1 rrakopyan@mephi.ru; The Ural Federal University, the Institute of Mathematics and Mechanics of the Ural Branch of the Russian Academy of Sciences solved interconnected extreme tasks for limited analytical functions in the single -link area G with the Zhordanova hidden border γ. In particular, the task of optimal restoration of the derivative at the point z0 ∈G according to the set 16 materials of the school-conference with the error with the limiting boundary values ​​of the function on the measurable part γ1 borders γ on the classroom of functions with the limited unit by the boundary values ​​of γ0 = γ \ γ1; The task of the best approaching the derivative at the point Z0 ∈ G linear limited functionality in lux (γ1) on the class. Keywords: optimal restoration of functionality, the best approach of unlimited functionality with limited, analytical functions. In the future, G is a single -bond area of ​​the complex plane, limited by the Zhordanova hidden curve γ. Let γ1 - the measurable subset γ of a positive measure, γ0 is an addition toγ1 toγ, i.e.γ0: = γ \ γ1. Through H (G) = HU (G), the Hardy class of analytical and limited functions is denoted. Class H (G) functions are almost everywhere for γ of non -powerful (angular) limiting boundary values. These boundary values ​​make up a function, which is determined almost everywhere on γ and belonging to lip (γ). For the density of the harmonic measure relative to the area G at the point Z, we will use the designation P (Z, ζ). Accordingly, the harmonic measure W (z, γ, g) of the measurable subset γ of the hidden border γ relative to the region G at the point Z is represented by the formula W (z, γ, g) = ∫ γ p (z, ζ) | dζ | In h (g), we highlight the class q functions f that satisfy the inequality ∥ f ∥l et (γ0) ≤ 1. In this article on class Q, interconnected extreme tasks for functionality υ1z0, which in accordance with the boundary values ​​of γ1 functions f, value Its derivative f ′ (Z0) at point Z0 G. The function of the variable δhern 14, determined by the equality F ′ (Z0) | : F ∈Q, ∥ F ∥LU (γ1) ≤}, (1) is called a module for the continuity of functionality υ1z0 on class Q. From definition (1) it follows that for the functions of h (G) the accurate inequality | F ′ (Z0) | ≤ ∥ f ∥l least (γ0) ω (∥ f ∥l least (γ1) ∥ f ∥l least (γ0)). The second is the task of the optimal restoration of the value of the derivative of the derivative of the derivative of the function at the point Z0 (functionality υ1z0) according to the well -known error Δ according to the norm of linger (γ1) by the boundary values ​​of the function to γ1 and additional information of the function of the class Q. more accurately, albeit for The unknown function F from class Q is a function q ∈ Linger (γ1) is such that the inequality is fair ∥ f - q∥lurb (γ1) ≤ δ. We want to restore the derivative of the derivative of the function F ′ (Z0), z0 ∈ G in the best (optimal) way. As many methods of recovery R from which the optimal is selected, we will consider many possible, b limited, or l linear functionals on Lux (γ1). The formal setting of the problem is as follows. For the number δhernzeas 0 and the method of restoration t ∈R, the value U (t, Δ): = SUP {| F ′ (Z0) –T Q | : f ∈Q, Q ∈ Lux (γ1), ∥ f –Q∥lurb (γ1) ≤ Δ} rh. Akopyan 17 is an error in the restoration of the value at point Z0 derivative of the function of the class Q on the boundary values ​​of the function on γ1, specified with the error Δ according to the norm Linger (γ1), by method t. Then ER (Δ): = Inf {u (t, Δ): t ∈R} (2) is the value of the optimal restoration of the value of the derivative of the function at point Z0 (or, the same, optimal recovery of the functionality υ1z0) of class Q function. Their Δ-affected boundary values ​​on γ1 using the methods of restoration R. The task is to calculate the value of ER (Δ) and determine the optimal recovery method-the functionality on which the lower line is achieved in (2). With values ​​(1) and (2), the task of the best approximation of functionality υ1z0 is closely related to linear limited functionality. The exact setting of the problem is this. Let L (N) have many linear limited functionals in lux (γ1), the norm of which does not exceed the number n ≥ 0. The value U (t): = SUP {| F ′ (Z0) —T F | : f ∈Q} is the evasion of the functionality t ∈ L (n) from the functionality υ1z0 in the class of functions q. Accordingly, the value e (n): = Inf {u (t): t ∈L (n)} (3) is the best The approximation of the functionality of theυ1z0 by many linear limited functionals L (n) on the class Q. The task is to calculate the value of E (n) and find extreme functionality on which