Materials of the School-Conference 3. Runovsky K.V. Direct theorem of the theory of approximations for the general smoothness module // Matem. notes. - 2014. - T. 95. - No. 6. - S. 900–911. 4. Runovsky K.V., Omelchenko N.V. Mixed generalized smoothness module and approaching “angle” from trigonometric polynomas // Matem. notes. - 2016. - T. 100. - No. 3. - P. 421–432. 5. Potapov M.K., Simonov B.V. Properties of a mixed module of the smoothness of a positive order in mixed metric // Bulletin of Moscow State University. Ser. matte. fur. - 2014. - T. 69. – No. 6. - P. 31–40. 6. Runovski K., Schmeisser H.-j.moduli of Smoothness Related to FRACTIONAL RISZ-DERIVATives // ZAA. - 2015. - Vol. 34. - No. 1. - P. 109–125. Mixed Generalized Module of Smoothness and Approximation by the “Angle” in the Spaces LP, 0 <p ≤+ger n.V. Omelchenko  For mixed generalized module of smoothness in the Lp-spaces, 0 < p ≤ +∞, of periodic functions of several variables, the direct and inverse theorems on the approximation by the “angle” of trigonometric polynomials are proved. Keywords: Approximation by the “Angle”, Mixed Generalized Module of Smoothness. UDC 504.519.24 Development of hydrodynamic and statistical models of the forecast of strong summer precipitation, squalls and tornadoes in the territory of Tatarstan and Volga region E.V. Perekhodtsev1 1 perekhod@mecom.ru; RSTU (MIREA), FSBI “Hydrometeorological Center of Russia” presents the results of hydrodynamic and statistical forecasts based on various models and concerning dangerous winds, including squalled winds and tornado, as well as strong precipitation in the territory of the Republic of Tatarstan, Upper and Middle Volga. Storm warnings about these phenomena are given by weather forecasters in three hours. Currently, the hydrodynamic model of the forecast is not effective; Warnsions based on it are issued in 20-30% of cases. These phenomena bring great economic damage. A successful forecast in 12-48 hours allows you to reduce this damage. Now the prognosis of squalls, tornado and strong precipitation, using the latest statistical models of recognition of these phenomena, is operational, it is carried out 2 times a day for use in practice as significant assistance to forecasters. Key words: the territory of the Republic of Tatarstan, statistical recognition model, hydrodynamic and statistical forecast, dangerous phenomenon, squalls, tornado, strong precipitation, check using the Pierce-Obukhov criterion. Currently, neither Russian nor foreign hydrodynamic forecast models (even 12 hours) of strong phenomena (quantity Q ≥ 14 mm/12 hours) and dangerous (quantity Q ≥ 45 mm/12 hours) precipitation do not give successful results. The prevention of strong precipitation phenomena does not exceed 25-30% (in the report in detail by BU EV Perekhodtsev 265 dutes, the latest results of the hydrodynamic forecast of strong semi-dry precipitation of various in vigority presented by A.N. Bagrovov, the head of the laboratory of independent tests of the Hydrometeorological Center of Russia. Creating an automated forecast These phenomena using the results of the statistical recognition and forecast of such precipitation developed by the author can increase the success of hydrodynamic forecasts. In the Upper Volga Directorate of Hydrometeorological Service (VVUGMS) in the 90s and in the control of the hydrometehules of the Republic of Tatarstan (Tatugms) in 2003-2006, there were The tests of the hydrodynamic and statistical forecast of strong semi-dry precipitation using the output prognostic fields of the first operational hydrodynamic model of the Hydrometeorological Center of Russia (author-Berkovich L.V.) were successfully carried out. According to the test results, the methods were recommended by technical councils Departments for use in operational practice. Also for hydrodynamic and statistical methods for the forecast of strong squalls, in which the wind speed was predicted in gradations V ≥ 20 m/s and V ≥ 25 m/used statistical models of recognition of meteorological situations as vectors of the N-dimensional space of signs with preliminary selection of n ( n = 38) the most informative and poorly dependent features (atmosphere parameters). For both gradations, two discriminant functions were built that share situations with the phenomenon without a phenomenon (they are given in the report). At the same time, in discriminant functions, the prognostic values ​​of the selected parameters from the first operational semi-sphere hydrodynamic model with a horizontal resolution of 300x300 km were used (author-Berkovich L.V.). Both Tatugms and VVUGMS have successfully conducted operational tests of automated statistical methods for the forecast of both gradations of strong wind using hydrodynamic forecasts of the semisoper model. The proposed forecast methods (in advance of 12 and 36 hours) were recommended by UMMS technology advice for use in operational synoptic practice. The test results are given in detail in the report. Currently, the hydrometeorological center of Russia as the main regional model has a hydrodynamic model in full equations with a horizontal resolution of 75x75 km. Guide