Materials of the School-Conference 3. Gabbasov N. S. Methodes of the solution of the integral equation of the third kind with fixed features in the nucleus // Different. Equations. - 2009. - T. 45. - No. 9. - C. 1341–1348. 4. Gabbasov N. S. New options for the collocation method for integrated equations of the third kind with features in the nucleus // Different. Equations. - 2011. - T. 47. - No. 9. - C. 1344–1351. 5. Gabbasov N. S. The new version of the collocation method for one class of integral equations in a special case // Different. Equations. - 2013. - T. 49. - No. 9. - C. 1178–1185. 6. Gabdulkhaev B. G. The optimal approximation of solutions of linear problems. -Kazan: Publishing House of Kazan. Unta, 1980.-232 p. An Approximate Solving Integral Equations of the Third Kind with Fixed Singularites in a Kernel N.S. Gabbasov, Z.H. Galimova We Study A Linear Integral Equation of the Third Kind with Fixed Singularites in a Kernel. For the Approximate Solution of these Equatios in the Space of Generalized Functions We Propose and Substantiant a Special Version of the Collocation Method. Keywords: Integral Equation of the Third Kind, Space of the Generalized Functions, Approximate Solution, Collocation Method. UDC 519.6, 517.9 The numerical method of solving the reverse problem of the heat transfer with outraged initial data Gavrilova1 1 gavrilovatp@susu.ru; South Ural State University (National Research University) considers the task of determining the temperature within an object subject to external theater. The initial data in the task are formed on the basis of measurements of temperature functions near the surface of the object. Using Laplace, the task comes down to an integral equation that characterizes the direct dependence of an unknown boundary function on the initial data. A numerical method for solving an integral equation is proposed, based on the principles of discrete regulatory. Keywords: heat transfer, the task of measurement, outraged data, the thermal conductivity equation, the transformation of Laplace, the numerical method. In the technological processes associated with heat transfer, the process of predicting the temperature inside the object with external thermal exposure is of great interest. In this case, the design of the equipment allows you to measure temperature functions only near the surface of the object. In this regard, there is a need to develop mathematical models and numerical methods for determining the temperature in the part of the object inaccessible to direct measurements according to the results of surface measurements. Such tasks are attributed to the class of reverse boundary tasks. The study of reverse boundary tasks associated with the processes of heat transfer is devoted to the work of many researchers [1] - [7]. T.P. Gavrilova 97 The task considers the task of determining the temperature at the internal points of the object, which, due to the features of external thermal influence, can be reduced to the problem of heat transfer in a linear object, one end of which corresponds to the point on the surface of the body, and the second - the internal control point. In the presented measurement task, the thermal conductivity equation using the direct and reverse transformation of Laplace is led to the integral equation of Voltairer, which is a direct dependence of an unknown temperature function on the source data, and then for the numerical solution of the obtained equation, the method of discrete regulators is used, ensuring the stability of the computing procedure regarding the error of the original data. To assess the effectiveness of the proposed approach, a computing experiment was conducted. The results of the experiment indicate sufficient accuracy of the proposed method of determining the temperature. Setting the problem mathematical model of the problem under consideration has the type :ug = auxx, x ∈ (0, l), t ≥ 0, (1) u (0, t) = onic (t), u (x0, t) = g (t ), t ≥ 0, (2) u (x, 0) = c, x ∈ [0, l], (3) where x0 is a point located near the boundary of the object. In this task, it is necessary to find the boundary value of the function u (l, t) = ψ (t). (4) Given the features of the technological process, we believe that in the inner points of the object G (t), onic (t) ∈C 2+η [0, t] for all t> 0 and η ∈ (0.1). There are also constant β0, β1, β2 ≥ 0 and α0, α1, α2 ≥ 0 such that inequality | U (x, t) | ≤β0eα0 (x+t), ∣∣icle (t) ∣∣≤β1eα1t and ∣∣ (t) ∣∣≤β2eα2t are made for x ∈ [0, L] and for all t ∈ [0, urb). In this case, the functions of pan (t), ψ (t) and g (t) are satisfied with the conditions of the conductor for any t ∈ [0, t] for all t> 0. When solving the task, it is necessary to take into account the presence of deviations of the measurement results of temperature functions from true values. Thus, instead of G0 and ∗0, some approximate values ​​of the GPA and ivil levels and the level of error δ> 0 are known that max {∥∥ices ϕ et, ∥∥gδ --g0∥∥} ≤ δ. In this task, it is required according to ising ising, gδ, δ Find the boundary value of the function uδ (l, t) = ψδ (t). Integral modeling method of solving the heat transfer problem for obtaining an integral equation connecting u (l, t) = ψ (t) and the basis of the data, we will find a solution to the next straight line