Materials of the School-Conference 4. Aksentiev L.A., Kinder M.I., Sagitova S. B. Discountry of the external reverse edge task in the event of a multi-link area // Tr. Sem. On the edges. tasks. - 1983. - Issue. 20.-S. 22-34. 5. Kinder M. I. On the number of decisions of the equation F.D. Gakhov in the case of a multi -link area // Izv. universities. Matte. -1984.-No. 8.-S. 69-72. 6. Elizarov A. M., Kazantsev A. V., Kinder M. I. Generalized Reduced Module of A Domain Over The Unit Disc with Circular and Radial Slits // Lobachevskii J. Math. - 2018. - V. 39, No 5.-P. 664-672. 7. Kazantsev A. V., Kinder M. I. Study of the Surface of a Generalized Reduced Module for Multiply Connected Domain // Complex analysis and its application: Materials of the Intern. School-Honf. - Krasnodar: Kuban state. University, 2018. - S. 59. On the Critical Points of the Generalized Reduced Moduli A.V. Kazantsev, M.I. Kinder Existency Conditions for the Critical Points of the Generalized Reduced Modules with Respect to Various Canonical Domains Are Studied. Keywords: Generalized Reduced Modulus, Mityuk’s Function, Mityuk’s Radius, Canonical Domain, Conformal Mapping. UDC 517.98 Approximation in the spaces of periodic functions and hypothesis Riman V.V. Kapustin1 1 kapustin@pdmi.ras.ru; St. Petersburg Branch of the Mathematical Institute. V. A. Steklov RAS discusses approximation statements, equivalent to Riemann’s hypothesis about zero-functions of Riman. Keywords: Berling -Smojan's approach to the Riman hypothesis, Berling Theorem of Invarict subspace, Devavenport formula. Various unitary equivalent models associated with the approach of Berling-Sneman to the Riemann’s hypothesis about zero-functions of Riemann are considered. Let K - subspace of weight space L2 1/x2 (0, +urb) = {f: +ger∫ 0 | f (x) | 2 d x x2 <mm}, consisting of all functions that are 1-periodic (that is, f (x+ 1) = f (x)) and satisfy the ratio F (x)+ f (1– x) ≡ const, x ∈ (0.1). Let K ∗ - a closed linear shell in the space L2 1/X2 (0,+urb) functions ρ (nx), n = 1.2 ,. . . where ρ (·) denotes the fractional part of the material number; We have k ∗K. Theorem. Riemann’s hypothesis about the zero of the zeta-function of Riemann is equivalent to the ratio ∗ = k. B.A. Katz 169 In the light of theorem the following simple sentence explains interest in studying the subspace K ∗. Drying 1. Let S - a complex number for which re s ∈ (12, 1), and let F ∈K ∗. If ζ (s) = 0, then +φ∫ 0 xs -2 f (x) d x = 0. The approximation approach is based on the connection between the dzeta-function and the Hardy space, expressed as follows. Drying 2. Function ζ (s) · (S -1) S2 belongs to the space of Hardy H 2 in half a fluidity {re s> 12}, and the hypothesis of Riemann is equivalent to the assertion that this function is external. The work was carried out with partial support of the RFFIF, grant No. 19-01-00565-A. Literature 1. Kapustin V.V. Berling Theorem, the formula of the Davenport and the Riman hypothesis // Algebra and analysis. - 2018. - T. 30. - No. 6. - C. 20–42. Approximation in Spaces of Periodic Functions and the Riemann Hypothesis V.V. Kapustin We Discuss Approximation Statements that Aequivalent to the Riemann Hypothesis About the Zeroes of the Riemann Zeta Function. Keywords: Approach of Beurling - Nyman to the Riemann Hypothesis, Beurling’s Theorem ABOUT Invariant Subspaces, DavenPort’s Formula. UDC 514.822 Integration on indestructible arcs of strong torsion and its application B.A. Kats1 1 katsboris877@gmail.com; Kazan (Volga) Federal University, Institute of Mathematics and Mechanics. N.I. In recent decades, Lobachevsky has appeared a lot of works devoted to transferring the concept of a contour integral to indestructible contours and its applications when solving regional problems for analytical functions. In this area, important results have been obtained, but there are classes of arcs for which a satisfactory theory of integration has not yet been developed. This report discusses recent promotions in this area and their applications when solving the regional problem of Riman. Keywords: indestructible arc, strong twisting, contour integral, integral of the Koshi type, the regional task of Riman.