Materials of the School-Conference 3 UDC 517.956 On the possibilities of Schwartz's function in the study of the tasks of the logarithmic potential N.P. Abubakirov1, L.A. Aksentyev2 1 abunail@mail.ru; Kazan (Volga) Federal University 2 L.AKSENTEV@kpfu.ru; Kazan (Volga) Federal University This message is a continuation of the studies of the authors [1] - [3]. It presents the possibilities of the implementation of the methods of A.V. Tsirulsky and V.N. Insurance when solving direct problems of logarithmic potential. The classification of the functions of the Schwartz, which are used in the construction of solutions, is given, options for endless and endlessly leafy riman surfaces are considered. Key words: logarithmic potential, Schwartz function, unambiguous branches of analytical functions, surface rimannes. When solving the direct problems of the logarithmic potential, the complex formula of Green in the form U (Z) = - 2 π ∫ d d s τ τ τ τ τ ∫d τdτ τ τ - z, (1) where D is the final single -link area is useful with the border ∂d. Suppose that ∂d = l is a closed analytical line on whom a plexteric plane z = x + i y. Then its equation can be represented in the form of l = {z: ψ (x, y) = 0 ⇔ ((z + z̄)/2, (z - z̄)/2i) ≡ (z, z̄) = 0, necessary Condition ∂∂/∂z̄ | zatory ̸ = 0} ⇒ z̄ = s (z) with an additional condition for the final number of branching points S (Z). In the book of Davis [4], the function S (Z) is called the Schwartz's function of the curve L. The following statements will be proved in the report. Theorem 1. Code of Schwartz S (Z) with the final number of branches of the branch allows you to calculate the gradient U (Z) in the form (1) for l: τ̄ = s (τ) using deductions and only when this surface has clan 0 and there are no branches of branching inside L or outside L. If the branch points are present both inside L and outside L, then the surface for S (Z) has a genus, larger or equal 1, and u (z) will appear in the form containing an integral Type Koshi along the shores of sections between branches of branching. Theorem 2. In the case when the surface for Schwartz S (Z) is endlessly, two options are possible for l: τ̄ = s (τ): 1) inside L or outside there are no branches of branching, but at least one essential feature of the function is contained S (Z). Then u (z) in the form (1) can be calculated using deductions; 2) inside and outside L, there are branches and then u (z) can be represented in a form containing an integral of the type of cat along the shores of cuts inside or outside L. 4 Materials of the School-Conference provides examples of application of theorem 1 and 2 for specific lines L. Basic The results of the presented report will be published in Lobachevskii Journal of Mathematics, No. 8 for 2019. The work was carried out with the financial support of the Russian Federation and the Government of the Republic of Tatarstan (project No. 18-41-160017). Literature 1. Abubakirov N. R., Aksentiev L. A. On the final solutions of the reverse problem of the logarithmic potential // Izv. universities. Mathematics. - 2016. - No. 10. - C. 65–69. 2. Abubakirov N. R., aksentev L. A.Classes of finite Solutions to the Inverse Prince of the Logarithmic Potential // Lobachevskii Journal of Mathematics. - 2018. - V. 39. - P. 151–160. 3. Abubakirov N. R., Aksentiev L.A. of the Direct and reverse tasks of the logarithmic potential with the final number of parameters // Izv. universities. Mathematics. - 2018. - No. 8. - C. 75–82. 4. Davis pH. The Schwarz Function and Its Applications. - Carus Mathematical Monographs. No. 17, 1974. - 228 p. 5. Tsirulsky A.V. The functions of a complex alternating in the theory and methods of potential geophysical fields. - Sverdlovsk: Academy of Sciences of the USSR, 1990. - 234 p. 6. Strakhov V. N. Kpovo Region of universal regulation of a flat reverse task of potential // Izvestia of the Academy of Sciences of the USSR. Physics of the Earth. - 1972. - No. 2. - C. 38–49. On Capabilites of Schwarz Function in the Princes of Logarithmic Potential N.R. Abubakirov, L.A. Aksentev in this report, wectinue out of reserch [1] - [3]. We Discuss the Capabilites of A.V. Tsirulsky’s and V.N. Strakhov’s Methods in the Solution of Direct Problems of the Logarithmic Potential. We Give Classification of the Schwarz Functions that Arise in Construction of the Solutions and Study the Cases of Finite-Sheeted and Infinite RieMann Surface. Keywords: Logarithmic Potential, Schwarz Function, Single-Valood Branches of Analytic Functions, Riemann Surface. UDC 517.9: 519.6 On the convergence of the Galerkin method for the task of the Koshi type for one fractional-radical equation of Yu.r. Agachev1, A.V. Guskova2 1 jagachev@gmail.com; Kazan (Volga) Federal University 2 Avsavina@kpfu.ru; Kazan (Volga) Federal University in the work in special pairs of functional spaces of the desired elements and right parts is justified by the Galerkin method of the approximate solution of the Koshi type problem for one differential equation of the fractional order. Keywords: the space of the Lebaga, a differential equation, a fractional derivative, a task of the Koshi type, the Galerkin method, the method of the method.