. ASYMPTOTIC SOLUTION OPTIMAL CONTROL PROBLEMS WITH MULTI-TEMPO FAST VARIABLES G.A. Kurina, M.A. Kalashnikova this Paper Contains a Short Review of Publications Devoted to asymptotic Analysis of Singularly Perturbed Optimal ControlMas Wit Multi-Tampo Fast Variablebles. Keywords: Optimal Control, Singular Perturbations, Multi-Tempo Variables, Asymptotic Expansions. UDC 517.927.25 On the degree of influence of various characteristics of non -self -intended ordinary differential operators on the speed of convergence of spectral decays I.S. Lomov1 1 lomov@cs.msu.ru; Moscow State University named after M.V. Lomonosov, Faculty of Computational Mathematics and Cybernetics The article provides an analysis of the results obtained by the scientific school V.A. Ilyina, on the issue of assessing the speed of convergence and equality with the trigonometric series of Fourier of the spectral decomposition of functions according to the root functions of linear ordinary differential operators, both self -integrated and non -self -fabbed, set at the final segment of the numerical straight line. The theorem about the speed of equality for the so -called loaded differential operators is formulated. Assessments of the speed of equal decays were obtained in integrated metric both on any internal compact of the interval and in the entire interval. The dependence of the ratio of equivalent of decays on an arbitrary compact of the main interval from the distance of this compact to the boundary of the interval, as well as from some operator characteristics, has been established. Keywords: an ordinary differential operator, own values, spectral decays, retirement speed, medium -sized formula. The trigonometric ranks of Fourier, their properties, convergence conditions have been studied in great detail. Many mathematicians, studying spectral decompositions of functions, were dealing with the equality of decomposition of functions according to their own functions of operators and in the trigonometric series of Fourier (for example, V.A. Steklov, J. Birkhof, A. Haar, Y.D. Tamarkin, M. Stone, A.Ch. Tichmarsh, B.M. Levitan, V.A. Ilyin, A.P. Khromov, G.V. Radzievsky, V.A. Sadovnichy, V.A. Vinokurov, I.V. Sadovnichiy, A. M. Savchuk). 214 Materials of the School-Conference as far as we know, the question of assessing the proximity of partial amounts of these decays was first considered by V.A. Ilyin and I. Yo in 1978 proved that for an absolutely continuous function F, the difference in partial sums of two decompositions ofole (x, f) and ss (x, f), the first of which meets the arbitrary non -negative expansion of the operator LU = −U ′ ′+ Q (x) u, and the second is a decomposition into a trigonometric series of Fourier, has the same small order on any compact of the interval under consideration as the last member of any of these decompositions. It was only assumed that the potential Q (X) belongs to the class LR, R> 1, or L2LOC at the interval G = (0.1). This result was adopted by V.E. Volkov and I. Yo (1986) on the Schrödinger non -self -fried operator with the potential of L2, then V.A. Ilyin (1991) and E.I. Nikolskaya (1992) in case of arbitrary summarized potential, scalar or matrix. In all cases, estimates of the speed of uniform equality were obtained on any compact K ⊂g. Note that the spectral method of V.A. Ilyina is a formula of average value. Let us give it for the above -mentioned Schrödinger L. Schrödinger operator, let the operator L's own function corresponding to the spectral number λn. Then there is the following integral equation (the formula of the average value of the titchmarsh) un (x+t)+un (x - t) 2 = un (x) cosλn t - 1 2λn ∫ x+t x --t q (ă) un (₽) sinorda sinorda (| x −M | - t) d t, (x -t, x+t) ⊂g. For high -order operators, the local formula of the middle E.I. Moiseeva. The systems of functions by which the decomposition can satisfy different regional conditions, therefore, uniform equivalent of the corresponding ranks throughout the segment G in the general case cannot be uniform. Some practical tasks, however, require assessment of the speed of equal decay or assessment of the procedure for approaching functions with spectral decays, it is on all G, and it is enough to establish the assessment in integral metrics. Following the works of V.A. Ilyina, the author received an assessment of the speed of equal decays on the entire interval G in the LP integrated metric. For a limited variation for a self-integrated operator, the rating was obtained in 1979, this result was transferred to the Schrödinger non-self-fabbed operator in 1995 and then to the assault operator of the Liwill assault with an unwatering coefficient P1 (X) under the first derivative in 1996 for an arbitrary operator for an arbitrary operator The result was obtained by the result in 2001 and in 2010 - for odd operators (together with S.V. Afonin). A.S. Markov (2012) transferred these results to systems of differential equations, which completed the study of the issue for classic differential operations. To develop the Ilyin method to obtain assessments of the equivalent of the decays throughout the GH interval, the use of T