Periodic Problem for a mixed type Equation of the Second Kind R.S. Khairullin for Amixed Type Equation of the Second Kind, We Investigate a Boundary Value Problem in a Rectangular Domain. On the Sides of the Rectangle the Condition of Periodicity is set, on the bas from the RECTANGLE, The Value of the Desired Function is Given. On the Particular Line, Gluing Conditions Are Specified. The Solution is Constructed as the Sum of a Series. SUFFICIENT CONDITIONS For The Given Functions and Geometry of the Domain that Ensure The Existence of the Solution Are Found. The Criterion of Unique is Established. Keywords: Strong Degeneracy, Second Kind Equation, Periodic Problem. UDC 517.9 Invariant diversity and laxe pairs for integrated equations of A.R. Khakimova1 1 aigul.khakimova@mail.ru; The Institute of Mathematics with the Computing Center of the Ufa RAS in the work discusses the direct method of finding parlias for non -linear integrated equations in private derivatives and their discrete analogues, based on the concept of generalized invariant diversity. A generally invariant variety is a common differential equation joint with linarization of a given equation. The OMA selected by the OMA allows you to build a pair of laxation for the original nonlinear equation. Key words: nonlinear integrated equations, linearized equation, invariant diversity, pair of laxa. A pair of laxa is an important tool for studying nonlinear integrated equations. It allows Hamiltonov to find a structure, integrates of movement, higher symmetries, accurate and asymptotic solutions, etc. Several methods of building pairs of laxa for integrated equations are known (see, for example, [1] - [4]), however, the development of new approaches to the solution of this problem remains relevant. Currently, there are a large number of integrated equations, especially discrete ones, which are poorly studied, and the available methods for constructing a pair of laxa do not always lead to the result. 358 Materials of the School -Conference in our works [5] - [10] A new method of searching for pairs of laxa for integrated equations is proposed. We emphasize that our method uses the idea close to the well -known method of pseudo -potential Walquist -Estabruk [2], where both Lax equations are at the same time. The difference between our approach is that as the first equation of the representation of the laxation, we take the linearization of a given integrated equation. The second equation of the pair will be an ordinary differential equation, jointly jointly with this linearized equation. We call the ode found in this way a generalized invariant diversity (OMI). It should be noted that OMA, suitable for building a pair of laxa, is usually nonlinear. In fact, at the first stage, we find a non -linear pair of laxation and then linearize it using the corresponding transformation. Since we are looking for only one of two equations, our method is quite effective. Briefly set out the essence of the method. Consider the non -linear equation in private derivatives of the type Ut = f (x, t, u, ux, uxx,., Uk), u j = ∂ j u ∂x j. (1) Linearize the equation (1) Ut = (∂ f ∂u + ∂ f ∂ux dx + ∂ f ∂UXX d2X + · + ∂ f ∂UK dkX) u. (2) we will attribute to linarization (2) an ordinary differential equation UM = f (x, t, u, ux, uxx,.., UM -1; u, ux, uxx,., Un), (3) Where u = u (x, t) the desired function, and the function u = u (x, t), which is a certain solution of equation (1), is included in (3) as a functional parameter. The determination of the equation (3) determines the generalized invariant variety (OMI) for the equation (1) if the condition is DMX UT - d tum ∣∣ (1), (2), (3) = 0 is performed identically for all variables {u j} andu , Ux. . . , Um - 1. Here, variables UT, UT and their derivatives in X are replaced by virtue of equations (1) and (2), and variables UM, UM+1 ,. . . - due to equality (3). Since variables x, t, u, ux, uxx,. . . UM -1, u, ux, uxx ,. . . , un, un+1 ,. . . In equation (3) are independent, the task of finding the function F (x, t, u, ux,., UM -1; u, ux,., UN) is redeemed and effectively solved. The following two classes of generalized invariant diversity are considered in our works: 1. S∑ I, J = 0 αi J (λ, U, U1,..) UIU J +K = 0; 2. M∑ j = 0 α J (λ, u, u1,..) U j = 0, A.R. Khakimova 359 where K, λ is arbitrary permanent. In the first case, when the OMA is set by the non-linear equation, the equations system (2)-(3) forms a nonlinear pair of laxation for the equation (1), which comes to linear transformations. In the second case, when OMA is set by a linear equation, such an important object in the theory of integration, such as the recursion operator, is easily displayed from equality. The effectiveness of the method of building a pair of laxa and the recursion operator is tested with numerous examples (see [5] - [10]). The study was carried out at the expense of the grant of the Russian Scientific Fund (project No. 15-11-20007). Literature 1. Zakharov V.E., Shabat A.B. Accurate theory