Materials of the School-Conference of UDC 517.9 Ultraproduction of probabilistic measures in the space of states C ∗ -algebr S.G. Haliullin1 1 samig.haliulin@kpfu.ru; The Kazan (Volga) Federal University discusses the probabilistic measures of Radon, set in the space of the conditions of some ∗ algebra. Ultraproductions of sequenic measures are also considered. Studying the structure of the states of states ∗-algebr and its extreme points in itself is an interesting task, but if we consider the ultraproduction of such algebra and conditions on them, then we get quite non-trivial results. Keywords: measure of radon, ultraproduction. Let K - a convex compact subset of the material locally swollen topological vector space X, C (K) - the space of all material continuous functions on K. It is well known that C (k) is the vector space above the field R and that the function is ∥ f ∥ = sup | f (x) | There is a norm in this space that turns C (k) into a banakh space. In addition, C (k) is a switching algebra over the field R and the topology determined by the norm is consistent with the structure of this algebra. Determination 1. (see, for example, [1]) a measure of Radon in a compact space K is the continuous linear form µ in the banach space (K); In this case, the value of the form µ for the continuous function F is called the integral from F relative to µ and is recorded in the form of µ (f) = ∫ k f (x) dµ (x), f ∈C (k), x ∈ K. The measure of Radon is called positive if µ (f) ≥ 0 for all F ≥ 0. The positive measure of radon is called probabilistic if µ (k) = ∥µ ∥ = 1. The set of all the probabilistic measures of Radon on the set K denocate m1 (k). Each positive extent Radon µ clearly corresponds to the σ-algebra Fµ (K) the so-calledµ-measurable subset of the compact Hausdorfov spaces under consideration. Any set A ∈ Fµ (K) is then compared by the non -negative number µ (A), called the measure of the set A. In this case, the measure µ is the Borelevsky measure on K, and the rice theorem establishes a mutually monk correspondence between the many Borelevsky measures and the measures of Radon on K. Further, everywhere we will assume that k is a convex subsets of many states EA = {ω: ω ∈A ∗} Some C ∗-algebra A, which is compact in the ∗ -sloba of topology. Each probabilistic measure µ ∈ M1 (K) has a barcenter (“center of gravity”) (see, for example, [2]): b (µ) = ∫ k ω dµ (ω). S.G. Haliullin 365 If B (µ) = ω, then they say that µ represents the state ω. It is clear that the measure of Dirac δω always represents ω. On many positive measures of Radon, the attitude of the partial order is introduced: µ≻ ν⇔µ (F) ≥ ν (F) for all continuous convex functions on K. It is known [2] that if µ, ν ∈1 (k) and µ≻ ν, then b (µ) = b (ν); Each state ω is a barcenter of some measureµ ∈1 (K), which is maximum in the sense of the introduced order ≻. In physical applications, the most important is the unity of the state ω of measure. It is also known ([3]) that if K is a non -empty convex subsets of the locally convex space X and point ω ∈ K, then ω is the extreme point K in that if the measure of dirac (“spot mass”) δω is It is the only probabilistic measure on k, representing ω. Determination 2. ([2]) compact convex set K, which serves as the basis for cone C, is called a symplex, if C is a grate. It is known, ([2]) that if K is a convex compact subset of the separated local-convex space, then any point ω ∈ K is the ramp of the only maximum µω ∈1 (K) Measures and only if K is a symplex. Determination 3. (see, for example, S. Heinrich, [4]) Let (n ∈ N)-arbitrary non-empty sets, U-non-trivial ultrafilter in the set of n. The factor-many work of the decartes work of the sets an (n ∈ N) the ratio of equivalence (an) ∼u (bn) ⇔ {n ∈ N: an = bn} ∈ U is called theoretical ultraproduction of the settings (an) and is indicated (an) u. Determination 4. ([4]) Consider the sequence (Hn, ∥ · ∥) n] banach spaces. Ultraproduction (HN) U is the factor-space Linger (N, HN)/Nu, where lip (n, hn) = {(Hn), hn ∈ Hn: submin ∥hn∥ <φ}, nu = {(Hn ) ∈ Lux (N, HN): limu ∥hn∥ = 0}. It is well known (see, S. Heinrich, [4]) that if KN is compact Hausdorfs of space, then there is such a compact Hausdorfo space K, that ultraproduction (C (KN)) U is a linearly isometrically isometrically space C (K). This isometry also retains multiplier and lattice structures. Therefore, the space (C (KN)) U can be identified as some C (K) and we call this space by the ultra -work of spaces C (KN). At the same time, ultraproduction (theoretical-many) (KN) U Homeomorpho dense subset K. Let KN = EAN - the space of the states of some C ∗ - algebra an, (n ∈N). The condition on the ultraproduction of the sequence C ∗ — Algebr A -call ωu ∈