Materials of the School-Conference of UDC 517.988 Almost resolving classes of nonlinear integral equations of the first kind M.Yu. Kokurin1 1 kokurinm@yandex.ru; Mari State University using the properties of the convexity of images of quite continuous nonlinear integrated operators describes convex closed cones, which, depending on the characteristics of the integrant, are included in the recessive cone, or in a tangent cone for the closed image of the operator in question. The constructed cones are determined by the main part of the asymptotics of the integrator at infinity and do not depend on the variation of its subordinate part. Applications are discussed to the issues of generalized resolution of nonlinear integrated equations of the first kind. Keywords: nonlinear integral operator, recessive cone tangenting cone, first -kind equation, permissibility. The nonlinear integrated operator of the Uryson f (u) (t) = ∆ ∆ onic (t, s, u (s)) d s, t ∈ than ∆ ⊂ RD is a limited closed area, d ≥ 1. Let Xs is considered , Y - banakh of the space of functions to ∆, space Y is continuously invested in C (∆), the integrant gment is characterized by a degree (with a non -equal indicator) behavior of U at infinity and the operator F: x → y is quite continuous. The equation of the first kind f (u) = g, u ∈ K, (2) where k is the cone in space X is studied. For equation (2) with a fixed integrant wor, a method of explicitly constructing a ray belonging to the recessive cone B (F (K)) - or related cone T0 (F (K)) at point 0 ∈ F (K) is described. The central role in this design is played by the main part ψ integrator ng according to the parameter U, which is determined depending on the nature of the behavior of the view of U → ∞. In particular, under natural additional conditions, it turns out that for any h ∈ K, the element f0 (h) = ∫ ∆ ψ (t, s, h (s) d S determines the beam LH (ψ) = {µf0 (h): µhern 0} such that f (u0)+lh (ψ) ⊂ f (d) ∀u0 ∈ K. It is established that despite the incorrectness of the equations under consideration, the property of generalized permissibility (2) is understood in the suitable sense is resistant to certain variations of the elements of the problem F, G. Applications are discussed to the issues of generalized resolution of nonlinear integrated equations of the first kind. I.A. Kolesnikov 189 Work was supported by the Ministry of Science and Higher Education of the Russian Federation as part of a state assignment (project 1.5420.2017/8.9). Literature 1. Kokurin M. Yu. Almost the resolution of classes of nonlinear integral equations of the first kind on cones // Izvestia of the Russian Academy of Sciences. Ser. matte. - 2019. - T. 83. (accepted for printing). Almost Solvability for Classes of Nonlinear Integral Equations of the First Kind M.Yuu. Kokurin  Using the convexity properties of images of completely continuous nonlinear integral operators, we give the description of convex closed cones, which are included either into the recessive cone, or into the tangent cone for the closed image of the operator under investigation, depending on characteristics Of the Integrant. The Constructed Cone Determined by the Principal Part in the Asymptotics of the Integrant at Infinity and Do not Depend on the Varis Subordinate Part. Applications to the Generalized Solvability of the First Kind Nonlinear Integral Equations Are DiscusSed. Keywords: Nonlinear Integral Operator, Recessive Cone, Tangent Cone, Equation of the First Kind, Solvability. UDC 517.54 Finding the parameters of conformal display of half a fluidity on the circular accountant I.A. Kolesnikov1 1 IA.KOlesnikov@mail.ru; National Research Tomsk State University is solved by the problem of determining the parameters of conformal display from the half -plane to a polygon with an infinite number of vertices (accounting). The accounting editorials with the property of the symmetry of transfer with the border consisting of arches of circles are considered. To determine the parameters of display from the half -plate, the method of P.P. Kufarev determination of parameters in the integral of the Schwartz-Cristofephel. Keywords: conformal display, Schwartz equation, counting, accessor parameters. The internal region is called the area with a symmetry of transfer along the material axis to 2π if, with linear transformation l (w) = w+2π, the area remains unchanged L (∆) = ∆. The area ∆ is called a field of the type of semi -fluidity if, when transforming L (w) = w +2π, only one simple end remains with the infinitely removed point in the infinitely removed point. A circular invoice of the type of half -plate is a single -copper region of the engine of the type of semi -fluidity, which has the property of the symmetry of transfer along the material axis to 2π, and such that part of the boundary of the region from point W0 to point W0 consists of a finite number of arcs of circles.