.  CONDITIONS FOR WEAK COMPACTNESS OF SETS OF BOUNDED RADON MEASURES ON VARIOUS TOPOLOGICAL SPACES  V.K. Zakharov, T.V. Rodionov  The paper presents some Cb-weak compactness criterion of a set of positive bounded Radon measures for a Tychonoff space similar to the well-known Prokhorov criterion. Since for a general Hausdorff space the classical space Cb of bounded continuous functions can be trivial and not separate points and closed sets, the S-weak compactness criterion is presented for this case, where S is the new uniformly closed linear space of metasemicontinuous functions. These results are esentially based on the solution of the Riesz –Radon– Frechet problem of characterization of Radon integrals as linear functionals obtained by the authors earlier. Keywords: Radon measure, Prokhorov property, uniform tightness, weak compactness, Riesz representation theorem.  UDC 517.13, 510.67  SOME INDUCTIVE SEQUENCE OF MODELS OF GENERALIZED SECOND-ORDER DEDEKIND THEORY OF REAL NUMBERS  WITH EXPONENTIALLY INCREASING POWERS V.K. Zakharov1, T.V. Rodionov2  1 valeriy_zakharov@list.ru; Lomonosov Moscow State University 2 rodionovtv@mail.ru; Lomonosov Moscow State University  The paper is devoted to construction of some inductive sequence of models of the generalized second-order Dedekind theory of real numbers with exponentially increasing powers. These models are not isomorphic whereas all models of the standard second-order Dedekind theory are. The main idea in passing to generalized models is to consider instead of superstructures with the single common set-theoretical equality and the single common set-theoretical belonging superstructures with several generalized equalities and several generalized belongings for first and second orders. The basic tools for the presented construction are the infraproduct of collection of mathematical systems different from the factorized Loś ultraproduct and the corresponding generalized infrafiltration theorem.  Keywords: second-order language, generalized models, infraproduct, ultraproduct, nonstandard analysis.    156 МАТЕРИАЛЫ ШКОЛЫ-КОНФЕРЕНЦИИ  1. Introduction  It is well known that all standard models of the standard second-order Dedekind theory of real numbers are isomorphic (see, for example, [1, 7.2]). The paper is devoted to the exposition of some generalized second-order Dedekind theory of real numbers with non-isomorphic generalized models.  More precisely, the paper is devoted to construction of some inductive sequence R̂ei (1 É i Éω0) of models of the generalized second-order Dedekind theory of real numbers with exponentially increasing powers. Since the sequence R̂ei (1 É i < ω0) is non-limit (see part I of the Theorem in section 3), some limit generalized model R̂eω0 is constructed such that every R̂ei is a submodel of R̂eω0 (see part II of the Theorem). These generalized models are completely different from models of the non-standard first-order nonDedekind theory of real numbers presented in [2, 2.14] under the name of non-standard analysis.  The appropriate for these constructions second-order notions were introduced in papers [4,6] (see also [5, C.1-C.2]), namely: a generalized second-order signature Σg2 , a generalized language L(Σ  g 2 ) of the signature Σ  g 2 , a superstructure S  g 2 of the signature Σ  g 2 over a  set A, an interpretation (≡ amathematical system) U ≡ (A,Sg2 ) of the signatureΣ g 2 on the sup port A, an evaluation γ on the systemU of all variables of the signature Σg2 , and a generalized modelU for a set Φ of formulas of the language L(Σ  g 2 ).  The main idea in passing to generalized models is to refuse the consideration of superstructures with the single common set-theoretical equality = and with the single common set-theoretical belonging ∈ and to consider the superstructure Sg2 with several generalized equalities ≈first and ≈second and several generalized belongings ∈+first and ∈+second for first and second orders. This generalized superstructure Sg2 is the derivative object from some initial generalized second-order signature Σg2 containing, in addition to individual and predicative constants and variables, some symbols δτ of generalized equalities and some symbols ετ of generalized belongings for first-order types τ and second-order types τ≡ [τ0, . . . ,τk ].  Correspondingly, in the capacity of initial formulas of the language L(Σg2 ) the formulas of the following two forms are taken: the formula yσ δσ zσ and the formula (xτ00 , . . . , x  τk k  ) ετ u τ, where yσ and zσ are the variables of the first- or the second-order  type σ and xτi i  and uτ are the variables of the first-order types τi and the second-order type τ≡ [τ0, . . . ,τk ], respectively.  These atomic formulas are interpreted on an evaluated system (U ,γ) (with an evaluation γ of variables on U ) in the following generalized way: γ(yσ) ≈σ γ(zσ) and (γ(xτ00 ), . . . ,γ(x  τk k  )) ∈+τγ(uτ), where ≈σ is a generalized ratio of equality and ∈+τ is a generalized ratio