. Keldysh Problem for Equation of Mixed Type with Characteristic Degeneration in Rectangle Domain Yu.K. Sabitova We Study the Keldysh Problem for Equation of Mixed Type with Characteristic Degeneration in a Rectangular Domain. A Solution to the Problem is Constructed in the Form of the Sum of a Series. We Prove Theorems of Unique and Existence of the Solution of the Problem. Keywords: Equation of Mixed Type with Characteristic Degeneration, Keldysh Problem, Unique, Series, Estimate, Unified Convergence. UDC 517.972.5 On the isoperimetric monotony of the functionals for the negative values ​​of the parameter of R.G. Salakhudinov1 1 rsalakhud@gmail.com; Kazan (Volga) Federal University, Institute of Mathematics and Mechanics. N.I. Lobachevsky in the article discusses the physical and geometric functionals of the region, depending on the free parameter. These functionality are built with the aim of summarizing classical isoperimetric inequalities proven by Polya, Peyne and others. It is shown that the isperimetric monotony of some functionals according to the free parameter extends to the negative range of changes. Keywords: worshiping rigidity, isoperimetric inequalities, Euclidean moments of the region relative to the border, extreme areas. 298 Materials of the School-Conference Consider the functionality H (G; P): = (p +1) (p +2) ρ (G) p (IP (G)-L (ρ (G) ρ (G) P +1 P +1), where IP (G) is the euclideic moment of inertia of the region G of order p, ρ (G) - Supremum radius of circles that are entirely in the region, L (ρ (G)) - the length of the set that lies at the distance ρ (G (G ) from the border and p (> - 1) - parameter. We will call the convex region G with a stretch of the convex region G0, if the region G0 can be obtained from G by cutting a rectangular fragment and combining the remaining parts so that ρ (G0) = ρ (G). Further, we designate the convex areas through the γ subset, containing polygons described near some circle, as well as circular polygons obtained from the polygons described by the replacement of some sides or their parts with arcs of an inscribed circle. The formation of the set γ will end with the addition of areas that are a stretch of elements from γ. Theorem. Let G - a convex area of ​​limited area on the plane. Functional (g; p) is a monotonously increasing function from P, if the area is g ̸∈ γ and −1 <p <0. For areas from the set γ functional (g; p) is constant. The israoremmetric monotony of the functionality h (g; p) for p ≥ 0 was previously studied by the author together with L.I. Gafiyatullina. The work was supported by the Grant RFFI (project 17-01-00282-A) and at the expense of the subsidy allocated to the Kazan Federal University to carry out the state assignment in the field of scientific activity (1.973.2017/8.9). On ISOPERIMETRIC Monotonicity of Functionals for Negative Values ​​of the Parameter R.G. Salakhudinov Physical and Geometrical Functionals of a Domain That Depend on a Free Parameter Are Discussed in the Article. Thunctionals Are Built with the Aim to Generalize the Classical Isoperimetric Inequalites, Prved by Polya, Payne, and Others. It is shown that isoperimetric monotony of some functionals with respect to the Free Parameter Extends to the Negative Range of Change. Keywords: ISOPERIMETRIC INEQUALITY, TORSIONAL RIGIDITY, EUCLIDEAN MOMENT OF DOMAIN with Respect to the Boundary, Extremal Domain.