. Approximation in Spaces of Periodic Functions and the Riemann Hypothesis V.V. Kapustin We Discuss Approximation Statements that Aequivalent to the Riemann Hypothesis About the Zeroes of the Riemann Zeta Function. Keywords: Approach of Beurling - Nyman to the Riemann Hypothesis, Beurling’s Theorem ABOUT Invariant Subspaces, DavenPort’s Formula. UDC 514.822 Integration on indestructible arcs of strong torsion and its application B.A. Kats1 1 katsboris877@gmail.com; Kazan (Volga) Federal University, Institute of Mathematics and Mechanics. N.I. In recent decades, Lobachevsky has appeared a lot of works devoted to transferring the concept of a contour integral to indestructible contours and its applications when solving regional problems for analytical functions. In this area, important results have been obtained, but there are classes of arcs for which a satisfactory theory of integration has not yet been developed. This report discusses recent promotions in this area and their applications when solving the regional problem of Riman. Keywords: indestructible arc, strong twisting, contour integral, integral of the Koshi type, the regional task of Riman. 170 Materials of the School-Conference of the Solutions of many Regional Problems of Complex Analysis are recorded in the form of contour integrals. Let us consider as an example the regional task of Riman (see, e.g., monographs [1–3]). This task is set like this. Let γ - specified on the complex plane C directed curve. It is required to find the analytical vc \ γfunctionφ (z), which has the limit values ​​φ+(t) and φ - (t) on the left and right, respectively, satisfying the regional condition φ+(t) φ in all internal points t. - (t)+ g (t), where g (t) and g (t) - specified on γ functions. Usually this regional condition is supplemented by the condition ofφ (و) = 0 and any restriction on the growth of the desired function at the ends of the arc γ. This is a classic task of complex analysis, which has a large number of applications. In the classical case, the curve of the curve γ of the solution of this problem is built in the form of integrals along the contour γ. For example, with G (t) ≡ 1 (the so -called task of leap) is an integral of the type of cat φ (z) = 1 2πi γ γ g (t) d t - z, z ̸∈ γ. Since the task also makes sense for indestructible contours, the task arises of giving the point to such an integral on indestructible curves and arcs. The first satisfactory solution to this problem was obtained in [4]. Let us give it a brief description. Let γ have a simple oriented Jordanov arc with the beginning and end A and B, respectively. With each such arc, we will connect the logarithmic core kγ (z) - the unambiguous branch of the function kγ (z): = 1 2πi ln z —b z - a, distinguished in c \ γ condition kγ (urb) = 0. In the inner points of the arc γ of it, it The logarithmic nucleus has a single leap, and at its ends it can have features of arbitrarily high order. Further, let the function g (t) (jump) specified on the arc is a narrowing on this arc with a function with a compact carrier ĝ (Z), which is continuously differentiated into C \ γ, and its product derived in z to a logarithmic nucleus. Integrate in c to degree, more than two. With certain restrictions, such a function can be built using the Whitney theorem about the continuation [5]. Then the display (distribution) cures (c) ∋ω 7 →-ï c ∂kγ (z) ĝ (z) ω (z) ∂z d z d z d zs in the case of a piece of the arc γ coincides with the display ω 7 → ∫ γ g (t ) ω (t) d t, D.B. Katz 171 and therefore can be considered its transfer in case of an indestructible arc. With the help of this generalized integral, a number of results regarding the edge tasks have already been obtained. However, it may not exist when the features of the logarithmic core of the arc at its ends have a fairly high order. In geometric terms, this means that this arc at the ends is twisted in a spiral with a fairly high degree of twisting. The report discusses a number of situations when a generalized integral on an indestructible arc manifests itself to determine despite its strong twisting, as well as apply to calculating an integral type of cat on such an arc and solving some regional problems on it. The work was carried out with the financial support of the Russian Federation and the Government of the Republic of Tatarstan (project 18-41-160003 p-a). Literature 1. Gakhov F. D. regional tasks. - M.: Nauka, 1977 .-- 649 p. 2. Muskhelishvili H. I. Singular integral equations. - M.: Nauka, 1968 .-- 513 p. 3. LU Jian-Ke. Boundary Value Problems for Analytic Functions.— Singapore: World Scientific, 1993. - 466 p. 4. Katz B. A. Zadacharimanan of the opened curve // ​​Izvestia of universities, mathematics. - 1983. - No. 12. - S. 30–38. 5. Stein I. Singular integrals and differential properties of functions. - m .: Mir, 1973 .-- 342 p. Integration Over Non-Rectifiable Paths of Strong Rotation with Applications B.A. Kats a Number of Contemporary Publications Are Deling with Transfer of the Concept of Curvilinear Integration On-Rectifia Contours and Applications of this Concents