. The inductive sequence of models of generalized Dedecindic theory of the actual numbers of the second order with the exponentially growing capacities of V.K. Zakharov, T.V. Rodionov in the work is based on inductive models of generalized Dedecindic second -handed -bearded numbers with exponentials of growing. These models are non -morchomorphic, while all models of standard Dedecindic theory of actual numbers are isomorphic. The main idea of ​​the transition to generalized models is the VTU, so that instead of super structures with the only theoretical and many equality and the only theoretical-monitoring attitude of belonging to consider the superstructures with various generalized equations and various generalized relations for the first and the second order. The main means for our construction are infrasting the collection of mathematical systems, different from the factorized ultraproduction of the moose, and the corresponding generalized infrafiltration theorem. Key words: second -order language, generalized models, infrast, ultraproduction, non -standard analysis. UDC 517.9 On non -classical packages O.A. Ivanova1 1 neo_ivolga@mail.ru; Southern Federal University proposes an approach to the introduction of multiplication (packages) in the topological inductive limit of the Freche of the whole functions of one complex alternating. This multiplication is determined using the shear operators for the general reverse shift operator (operator Pommie). The properties of the algebra of analytical functionals received in this way have been studied. Keywords: a bundle, algebra of analytical functionals, a general reverse shift operator. Below we are talking about multiplying analytical functionals in the algebra, which is different from the standard package set by conventional shifts. Works of this kind (for example, a bundle and a work of Duamel) are studied in the monograph of I. Dimovsky [6], in the works of M.T. Karaeva [5], [7]. The following situation is considered. Let VN, K: C → R-continuous functions such that 160 Materials of the School-Conference VN, K+1 ≤ Vn, K ≤ Vn+1, K, K ∈ N. Weights Vn, K also satisfy the standard technical conditions . Put E: = ⋃ n] f (z) | EXP (VN, K (Z)) <+φ} Banakhovo space with the norm ∥ · ∥n, k. At the same time, h (c) is the space of whole (in c) functions. We supply E with the inpology in → proj ← k en, k (the limits are taken relative to the investment). It is assumed that E contains an unnecessary function. We fix the function g0 ∈ E such that G0 (0) = 1. The operator is generalized in the reverse shift (the operator of the bulk) is determined by equality D0, G0 (f) (t): = f (t) −G0 (t) f (0) t, f ∈ E. It is linearly and continuously acting in E. Shear operators TZ, Z ∈C, for D0, G0 are set by equality TZ (F): = T F (T) G0 (Z) - Z F (Z) G0 (T) T - Z. They also linearly and continuously display E in E. Further E ′ is a topological conjugated to E space. The bundle lus⊗ ∈ E ′ functionals ∗, ∈ ∈ E ′ is determined as: (∗⊗) (f): = ip (ψ (tz (f)), z ∈C, f ∈ E. With multiplication ⊗ space E ′ is a toilet associative and switching algebra. Symbol K (D0, G0), we denote the switch D0, G0 in the ring (algebra) of all linear continuous operators in E; K (D0, G0) - algebra with multiplication - the composition of operators. For ∗ ∈ E ′, we introduce the operator aular (f) (z): = onic (tz (f)), z ∈C, f ∈ E, linearly and continuously acting in E. The connection of algebr (E ′, ⊗) and K (D0, G0) shows theorem 1 [1]. Display ω: (E ′, ⊗) → K (D0, G0), ω (ivil): = a accord is algebraic isomorphism "to". The topological properties of display ω were studied, as in theorem 1. In particular, the conditions are established that ω is topological isomorphism (see [3]). The indicated isomorphism is applied to the evidence that many polynomials from D0, G0 are tightly in K (D0, G0) with low-operator topology when endowing E weak topology σ (E, E ′), and to determine the conditions under which every operator is from K (D0, G0) is D0, G0-operator of an infinite order. Such a specific situation has been investigated [6]. Let Cinger (ω) - the space of the Freche of all infinitely differentiated functions in the interval of the material line containing the beginning; (KN) norn - an increasing sequence of segments in ω, exhausting ω; HKN (x): = max tgrn (xt), x ∈ R,-the supporting function KN, n ∈ N. The strongly associated to cured (ω) by transformation of Fury-laplass f, f (ship) (z): z): = ∈ (E --i T Z), topologically isomorphically the counting inductive limits of the banania spaces of whole functions F, such that n ∈ N and C> 0, for which | f (z) | ≤ c (1+ | z |) Nehkn (Im Z), Z ∈ C. (In this case, weights vn, k (z) = hkn (Im z)+ nlog (1+ | z |) on K do not depend. ) One of the specific properties E is that M.V. Kabanko 161 space of all polynomials is contained and closed in it, which means not tightly in E. Display F ′: E ′ → Cinger (ω), associated with F, is the isomorphism of the algebr (E ′, ⊗) and (Cift (ω)