Materials of the school-conference where C is the absolute constant. In conclusion, we give the assertion that if the function f (x) ∈ B, then fiot (x) ∈B. Namely, the following theorem takes place. Theorem 4. If f (x) ∈B has a number of Fourier f (x) ∼ φ∑ k = −mm ak Exp (Iλk x), then fiot (x) ∈B and fiot (x) ∼ ∑ | λk | <σ Ak accord (λk) exp (Iλk x). Literature 1. Levitan B. M. Almost - periodic functions. - M. - L: Gostekhizdat, 1953. - 396 p. 2. Timan M.F., Khasanov Yu. Kh. On the approaches of almost periodic functions with whole functions // Izv. universities. Mathematics. - 2011. - No. 12. - C. 64–70. 3. Bernstein S. N. Collected Works. T.I. - M.: Ed. USSR Academy of Sciences, 1954. - 627 p. 4. Bredikhina E. A. On the question of approximation of almost periodic functions // Sib. matte. Journal. - 1964. - T. 5. - No. 4. - C. 768–773. 5. Bredikhina E. A. Kteorem S.N. Bernstein about the best approximation of continuous functions with whole functions of this degree // Izv. universities. Mathematics. - 1961. - No. 6. - C. 3–7. 6. Khasanov Yu. Kh. Absolute convergence of the rows of Fourier almost periodic functions // Matem. notes. - 2013. - T. 94. - No. 5. - C. 745–756. ABOUT THE BEST Approximation of Uniform Almost Periodic Functions yu.kh. Khasanov The Paper IS Devote to Investigation of A Problem of Approximation of Almostic Functions by Entire Functions with Given Spentrum in the Uniform Metric. ALSO Necessary and SUFFICIENT CONDITIONS FOR BELONGING of UNIFORMOST PERIODIC FUNCTIONS to the Class of Entire Functions are Established. Keywords: Almost Periodic Functions, Fourier Series, Spectrum of Function, Entire Functions of Finite Order, Trigonometric Polynomial, Best Uniform Approximation. UDC 517.982.256 The geometric properties of the Sun I.G. Tsarkov1 1 tsar@mech.math.msu.su; Moscow State University named after M.V. Lomonosov, Faculty of Mechanics and Mathematics in the article two long-standing problems are solved. The characterization of a limited compact set is established to be the Sun through the property of acylicity I.G. Tsarikov 371 sets of the best approximation, and it is also proved that any limited compact set has a continuous ε-devices for all ε> 0. The solution to the second problem of the B-connected limited compact suns is obtained from the solution of the first task. Key words: geometric theory of approximations, the sun, the criterion of Kolmogorov. For an arbitrary set M, in some linearly normalized space X through ϱ (y, m) (y ∈ X, m ⊂ x) we denote the distance to the set M, i.e. The value of inf zăm ∥z - y∥. Through PM X, we denote the many nearest points from M for x ∈ X, i.e. set {y ∈ M | ∥y - x∥ = ϱ (x, m)}. We denote through b (x, r) and b (x, r), respectively, a closed and open ball in a linear asymmetric normalized space x = (x, ∥ · ∥) with the center of the radius R, i.e. Accordingly, sets {y ∈ X | ∥y −x∥ é r} and {y ∈ X | ∥y −x∥ <r}. If Q denotes a certain property (for example, “connectivity”), we will say that a closed set M has a P-Q property, if with all x ∈ X a lot of PM X is non-notable and has the property of Q; P0, if PM X has the property of Q for all x ∈ X; B-q, if m ∩b (x, r) has the property of Q for all x ∈ X, R> 0; B̊-Q, if m ∩ b̊ (x, r) has the property of Q for all x ∈ X, R> 0. For the first time N.V. Efimov and S.B. Stechkin [1] The property of Kolmogorov was formulated in the form of his geometric analogue - the properties of the sun. From this moment on, the concept of the Sun received recognition throughout the world and many mathematicians here and abroad began to study its various constructive characteristics. Definition. Let be ; ̸ = m ⊂ x. Point X ∈ X \ M is called the Sunny Point, if there is a point y ∈ PM x ̸ =; (called the luminosity point) is such that y ∈ Pm ((1–λ) y +λx) is for all λê 0 (this geometrically means that a ray passes through the X, for each point of which Y is the closest of M ). Point X ∈ X \ M is called the point of strict sunlight if pm x ̸ =; And each point y ∈ PM X is a point of luminosity. If all points from X \ M are points of sunnyness (strict sunlight), then many M of one of these characteristics studied was the connectivity of the sun and its generalizations. Here we will note the results of V.A. Koshcheeva [2], [3], who proved the coherence of the sun and the so-called B-colation of strictly the sun in the endless spaces, as well as the coherence of the compact sun. He also built an example of the incoherent sun in some infinite space (see [4]). A.L. Brown [5], [6] specified this result, proving that in the endless spaces, each sun is linearly coherently and locally linearly coherently. On the way of studying the issue: what characteristics of the set make it the sun, L.P. Vlasov (see [7]) proved in particular that there is a limited compact set, a metric projection for which has acyclic images, and 372 materials of the school-conference are the sun. After this theorem, the question naturally arose: whether the opposite is true, i.e. whether everything is limited compact with