Extreme Rotation Surfaces for the Potential Energy Functional N.M. Poluboyarova, I.A. Romanova We Study the Extremals of the Potential Energy Functional. Such Extremals Model The State of Equilibrium Liquids in a Gravitational Field with A Potential, Magnetic Fluids, and Capillary Surfaces. Imposing Conditions on the Functional, We Managed to Constructles of Extremal Surface of Revolution. Keywords: The Variation of Functional, Extreme Surface, Functional Type Area, Volumetric Density Functional, The Functional of Potential Energy, The Mean Curvature of The Exte Sume Sume Sume Sume Sume Sume Sume Sume Sume simply UDC 517.54 Travel to Bor inequality: yesterday, today and tomorrow S. Ponnus1 1 samy@iitm.ac.in; The Indian Technological Institute of Marasa Lecture is based on my recent active cooperation with Ilgiz Kayumov, and therefore, the results that will be considered are based on our joint work. The results regarding the inequalities of the type of boron relate to the following two main families of functions, namely: 1. Family of all limited analytical in a single circle of functions, 2. Family preserving the orientation of harmonic display of a single circle, and the rest are obtained by generalizing or improving the inequality of boron. This report will be given a review of a number of results, including the latest achievement with regard to the classical inequality of Bor. In particular, solutions to a number of problems about the radius of Bor for various spaces of analytical function will be described. We will also discuss several unpublished results and formulate some new problems. Keywords: boron inequality, limited analytical functions. JOURNEY TO BOHR'S INEQUALITY: YESTERDAY, TODAY AND TOMORROW  S. Ponnusamy  The lecture is based on my recent active cooperation with Ilgiz Kayumov, and thus, the results that    272 МАТЕРИАЛЫ ШКОЛЫ-КОНФЕРЕНЦИИ  will be addressed will mainly be my joint work with lgiz Kayumov and HIS Team. Results concerning Bohr-type inequality are motivated by the following two fundamental family of functions, namely,  1. The family of all bounded analytic functions in the unit disk,  2. The family of sense-preserving harmonic mappings of the unit disk,  and the REST ARE EVOLVED THESE by Way of Generalizing as Bohr's Phenomenon or Improving the Bohr inquality in Different Setting. In this talk, an overview on the number of results including recent trend on the classical inequality of Bohr will be addressed.In particular, we indicate solutions to a number of problems on the Bohr radius for different spaces of analytic functions. A Sequence of Events Led to New Problems Will Be Discussed. We Shall Address Few Unpublined Results and Discuss Some New Problems. Keywords: Bohr’s inquality, Bounded Analytic Functions. UDC 514.635.4 Modeling the wave course of liquid films with thermal mass renewal L.A. Prokudin1, D.A. Bukharev2 1 Prokudina@susu.ru; South Ural State University 2 Needleinspace@gmail.com; The South Ural State University is represented by a nonlinear differential equation in private derivatives for the deviation of a free surface of a liquid film from a uninhabited state in the processes of heat and mass exchange. Computational experiments were carried out on the calculation of the wave characteristics of the liquid film: frequency, incremental, phase speed in the processes of evaporation and condensation, as well as computer modeling of the state of the free surface of the vertical film of water, taking into account gradients, superficial viscosity. Key words: liquid film, wave characteristics, free surface, temperature gradients. Subtle layers of viscous fluid (liquid films) moving along a solid surface under the influence of gravity for moderate reinolds with heat exchange (evaporation, condensation) were investigated. The acutality and practical significance of studying the currents of the thin layers of viscous fluid is associated with their wide implementation in numerous heat-mass-combat devices of thermal, chemical, metallurgical, food, pharmaceutical industries (film rectifiers, columns with flat-parallel nozzles, absorbers) and others. A combination of slight thickness Films and a large surface of the contact can significantly intensify chemical, thermal, diffusion processes [1, 2]. The nonlinear differential equation in private derivatives is presented [3] for the deviation ψ (x, t) of the free surface of the liquid film from the calm