DisJointly Homogeneous Symmetric Spaces S.V. ASTASHKIN THIS A Concise Survey of Recent Author’s Results Which Give Solution OF SOME PROBLEMS REENETED to Theory of DISJOINEUS SYMMEMEMEMEMETRIC Spaces and Its Applications. Keywords: Banach Lattice, Symmetric Space, Compact Operator, Striptly Singular Operator, Disjointly Homogeneous Banach Lattice, P-Disjointly Homogeneus Banach Lattice. UDC 517.956.25 Asymptotic solutions of the problem of convective diffusion inside the drop in the presence of a volumetric chemical reaction of R.G. Akhmetov1 1 akrust@mail.ru; Bashkir State Pedagogical University named after M. Aakmullas considers the stationary task of convective diffusion inside the drop, streamlined by the fluid stream with a small number of Reynolds, taking into account the non -linear volumetric chemical reaction. A characteristic feature of the task is the presence of two dimensionless parameters: the velocity constants of the volumetric chemical reaction and the number of Peckla, which determine the distribution of concentration in the stream. The ratio of the velocity constant of the volumetric chemical reaction and the number of Peckla is constant. The task under consideration is a regional task for a quasi -cylinine equation in private elliptical derivatives with a small parameter with senior derivatives. In the low surroundings of the drops, the main members of the asymptotic solution were built [1]. Key words: convective diffusion, volumetric chemical reaction, asymptotic solution. 46 Materials of the School-Conference Literature 1. Akhmetov R.G., Milyukova A.V. Asymptotic solutions of the problem of convective diffusion inside the drop, streamlined by the fluid flow // Modern scientific technologies. - 2018. - No. 9. - C. 29–34. Asymptotic Solutions of the Prince of Conversation Drops with Volumetric Chemical Reaction R.G. Akhmetov We Consider a Stationary Problem of Conversion Diffusion A Droplet, Which is StreamLined Flow At Low Reynolds Numbers, Taking Into AccounInt a Nonnamo CELUMETRITRITRITRIC The characteristic feature of the problem is the presence of two dimensionless parameters: a constant of rate of the volumetric chemical reaction and the Peclet number which determine the concentration distribution in the flow. The Quantity Constant of Rate of the Volumetric Chemical Reaction and the Peclet Number Assumed to Have A Constant Value. IS A Boundary Value Preblem for a Quasilinear Partial Elliption Equation with A Small Parameter Multiplying in Higher Derivatives. In the Small Neighborhood of the Drop, The Principal Terms of the Asymptotics of the Solution Are Constructed [1]. Keywords: Convection Diffusion, Volumetric Chemical Reaction, Asymptotics of Solution. UDC 517.95 LP - the limit of a certain class of periodic pseudo -diagnosis operators Sh.A. Balgimbaev1 1 Sholpan.Balgyn@gmail.com; The Institute of Mathematics and Mathematical Modeling (Almaty, Kazakhstan) establishes LP - the limit of one class of pseudo -diodecture operators with a symbol, insignificant in spatial variable, on D -derivatives of 1 <p <mm in the presence of weights. Keywords: pseudo -dysphenerated operator, operator symbol, d - dimert. Pseudo -radiographic operators (PDOs), i.e. Operators having a presentation TAU (x) = (2π) −d ∫ rd a (x, perf) û (hole) e2πi xisingunk are important in the theory of general differential operators with variable coefficients, as well as in harmonic analysis. A study of the limitations (classes) of PDOs between various normalized spaces of functions and distributions is one of the important tasks of the theory. It is usually assumed that the symbol A: RD × RD → C operator TA is smooth, both in spatial variable X and in the frequency variable ctor, and satisfies some growth conditions (descending). BEAN, Z, R, C - many natural, whole, real and complex numbers, respectively; N0 = n∪ {0}; R+ = (0,+ inous); ZD = {1.2 ,. . . , d} (d ∈ N). For