Materials of the School-Conference of UDC 533: 519.63 Study of the strong compression of the low-sufficient bubble in the liquid, depending on its pressure and temperature. Halitova1 1 Taliny@mail.ru; The IMM-separate structural unit of the FIC of the execution of the Russian Academy of Sciences is numerically examined by strong compression of the medium in a low-sufficing cavitation panel at its collapse depending on the pressure (15 and 50 bar) and temperature (273–460 K) of liquid (acetone). It was established that the transition from unstressed compression of the contents of the bubble to compression with a shock wave at a higher fluid pressure is carried out at its greater temperature. It is shown that at a fixed fluid temperature, the growth of small deformations of the bubble during collapse at a larger fluid pressure is larger, and the radius of the bubble at the time of extreme compression of its contents is less. Keywords: strong compression, cavitation vial, shock wave, low -sufficient bubble. With strong compression of the bubbles in the liquid in their cavities, conditions for chemical reactions and physical transformations can be created. The degree of compression of the medium in bubbles significantly depends on many factors: fluid pressure, its temperature, shape of the bubble, the presence of neighboring bubbles, physical parameters of the environment, etc. So, in [1] it was shown that when the liquid acetone is pressure in 50 bar, the collapse of the steam bubble with the formation of a converging spherical shock wave in its cavity is carried out at a liquid temperature of up to 375 K. At high temperatures, compressing the contents of the bubble is unstressed. In [2], under the same conditions, an analysis of the growth of indignation of the spheres of the cavitation bubble was performed, where the temperature of the liquid acetone varied in the range from 273 to 373 K. Other similar studies to the author are unknown. In this work, a study of the strong compression of the cavitation bubble in liquid acetone is carried out depending on the temperature of the fluid in the range from 273 to 460 k at a fluid pressure of 15 and 50 bar. Formulation of the problem. The process of strong compression of a low -nine cavitation bubble with an initial radius of 500 microns in acetone is considered. The PL fluid pressure is taken equal to 15 and 50 bar, and the TL liquid temperature changes from 273 to 460 K. Initially, the bubble-liquid system rests, the pairs in the bubble are in a state of saturation at a temperature of the surrounding fluid with appropriate pressure from 0.09 to 21.55 bar. The dynamics of the steam in the bubble and the surrounding liquid is described by the model of a low -sufficient cavitation bubble with the breakdown of the fluid movement into a spherical component and its small unsteadoric indignation [3]. When calculating the spherical component, the compressibility of fluid and steam, non-stationary thermal conductivity, evaporation-condensation on the interposed surface are taken into account, and wide-band equations of the state are used. In the spherical coordinate system, the surface of the non -phase bubble of MO MP Khalitova 361 can be presented in the form of: r = r (t) [1+ φ∑ n = 2 εn (t) pn (cosθ)], where θ is the polar angle, r is the radius of the bubble, εn - the amplitude of the unsfluity, assigned to The radius of the bubble, in the form of a polynoma Lyandra degree N (numbers of spherical harmonics). The gap 2 ≤ n ≤ 10 is considered, since in practice such forms arise easier. It is believed that the bubble is low -sufficient: deviations of the shape of the bubble from the spherical in the form of a separate harmonic PN are analyzed. When calculating the non -phase component, surface tension, fluid viscosity, weak fluid squeezing and the effect of the contents of the bubble in the form are taken into account [4]. Results. In Fig. 1 shows the effect of the temperature and pressure of the fluid on the compression process of the bubble. At low temperatures, for example, at 273 K (Fig. 1 (A), (B)), a spherical shock wave converts to the center of the bubble is formed in the bubble cavity. At the same time, with greater pressure, the shock wave occurs earlier, and its intensity is larger. The radius of the bubble at the time of extreme compression at a liquid temperature of 273 K in cases PL = 15 and 50 bar is not much different. As the temperature of the TL fluid increases, the radius of the bubble at the time of extreme compression RM increases (Fig. 1 (b), (d)). At the same time, with an increase in PL pressure from 15 bar to 50 bar, the difference between RM values ​​increases, so at a temperature of 420 K they differ by about 2 times. For the same TL liquid temperature in the range from 300 K to 420 K, the size of RM is greater at lower fluid pressure. From Fig. 1 (b), (g) it follows that in the temperature range, the transition from unstressed compression of the medium in the bubble to compression with a shock wave at a higher pressure PL is carried out at a higher fluid temperature. In Fig. 2 shows the effect of the temperature and pressure of the fluid on the deformation of the bubble during compression. At low temperatures, for example, at 273 K (Fig. 2 (A), (B)), the deformation of the bubble at the beginning of the compression to the radius of the bubble ≈ 50 microns behave the same at different pressures, while the compression of the differences increase. Differences in the amount of deformations by the time of extreme