Methods of automatic collection of information about the activity of users of the social network VKontakte N.M. Davletshin1, A.A. Berdnikov2, P.N. Ustin3 1 davlet- 9@ya.ru; Kazan (Volga) Federal University, Institute of Computing Mathematics and Information Technologies 2 Andreyberdnikov1998@gmail.com; Kazan (Volga) Federal University, Institute of Computing Mathematics and Information Technologies 3 Pavust@mail.ru; Kazan (Volga) Federal University, the Institute of Psychology and Education The purpose of this work is to study methods to make an automated collection of data on the activity of users on the VKontakte social network. In the Python language using API VK methods, high -performance algorithms have been developed that allow you to track the time of the user on the social network, as well as algorithms that allow you to receive information about the "likes of friends and the pages of friends. Keywords: VKontakte, social network, collection data, user activity, API, API request, API VKontakte, prognostic, psychometry to date in the life of a modern person, social networks play an important role. Using social networks, millions of people communicate and share information around the world. Users replenish their profile daily with a huge amount data that reflect the various aspects of their “virtual self”, make it possible to both diagnose their personal characteristics, and predict the likely behavior in real life. In this regard, there is a significant interest of researchers in projects dedicated to the problem of predicting behavior on Lovers of social networks based on psychometric data reflected in their personal profiles. The most famous here are the work performed as part of the My Personality project. This project unites more than 200 scientists from around the world who deal with the problem of psychometric indicators of personality behavior on social networks (first of all, Facebook). To date, they have already identified various markers that allow us to predict human behavior on the basis of his virtual traces on social networks [2, 3]. The most popular social network in Russia is the VKontakte social network. This online service is used not only in Russia, but also around the world. At the moment, the number of users VKontakte is about 565 million. However, today, despite the updating of Russian research projects related to the prognostic capabilities of the social 234 “Lobachev Readings - 2019” of the VKontakte network (for example, for the career guidance work of educational institutions [1]), this area in Russia remains little -studied. The main goal of the presented work was to develop a system for automated data collection on user activity on the VKontakte social network using API VK. This system acts as one of the components of the functional psychometric model of the cognitive and behavioral predictors of the life activity of the individual within the framework of its educational activity. The VKontakte API is an interface that allows you to receive information from the VK.com database using HTTP checks to a special server [5]. To obtain the necessary information from the VKontakte social network, it is not required to know how the database is arranged, from which tables and fields of what types it consists of, and it is enough to know and perform API-stakes. The syntax of requests and the type of data returned by them are strictly defined on the side of the service itself. The VKontakte API has a number of restrictions that limit the capabilities of automated download. These restrictions can be divided into quantitative and frequency. When referring to the methods of the API VKontakte, you can perform no more than 3 requests per second. As part of this study, the Python 3.7 programming language (libraries: Requests, Pypyodbc) were used, and downloaded data were recorded in a database under the control of the Microsoft SQL Server DBMS. The basis of this study used the KFU students, containing the ID of their VKontakte pages. The solution to the problem of collecting data on user activity was carried out according to two algorithms: 1. Vkontakte's last visit to the last visit (online status); 2. Collection of user's likes on interesting pages and on the pages of friends. The first algorithm monitored the activity (apeed on the social network) in those related to the week. VK ID students are selected from the database. Next, every 15 minutes a request is made to the users.get method, which returns expanded information about users in accordance with the specified criteria. The returned list contains additional profile fields that were indicated in the Fields parameter. Example of the request (Nagim Davletshin student): 1 R = Requests.get ('https://api.vk.com/method/users.get', 2 params = {'user_ids': 444599814 ',' field_seen ', 3' Access_Token ':' Access_Tok