] Modeling an element of the porous environment according to computed tomography O.V. Gerasimov1 1 valery.karasikov@gmail.com; Department of Theoretical Mechanics of the Institute of Mathematics and Mechanics N.I. Lobachevsky Kazan (Volga) Federal University in the work considers one of the possible numerical approaches to describing the behavior of heterogeneous media under the influence of external loads, based on modeling the structure of the studied area, taking into account the data of its computed tomography. In the work, an assessment of the influence of the data of a tomographic study on the convergence of the proposed numerical methodology was carried out, test tasks were solved. The results of the solution of the model problem for the span of the femoral bone are given. Keywords: mathematical modeling, non -hemogenic environment, computed tomography, finite elements, digital prototype method. Currently, the most promising direction in modeling the behavior of heterogeneous media is the use of computed tomography data. This approach allows you to obtain information about the structure of complex anisotropic, fine -grained or porous materials, as well as other bodies characterized by heterogeneity. This task is especially relevant in orthopedic clinical practice, because Bone defects associated with all kinds of pathologies can have a great influence on the quality of the treatment. There are several approaches to the construction of models of elements of porous media, deformed under the influence of external loads. First of all, they include the approximation of the distribution of heterogeneity by the method of medium -sized lines: in this case, the ratios that connect the components of the elastic constant and the tensor of the structure are formulated [1], which characterizes the omanded direction of the pores. Another approach is the reduction of the anisotropy of the material to orthropia by determining constant from numerical experiments [2]. In this work, an approach is proposed based on the features of the structure of porous material, detected by computed tomography in the construction of a numerical model [3]. Conducting a computed tomography of an element of the porous environment involves the creation of its digital prototype, which is a three -dimensional integer array of a certain structure. The elements of this array are units or zeros that characterize the presence or absence of a substance in a certain microelent of volume and reflect the X -ray density according to the Haunsfield scale [4]. Thus, the digital prototype represents the structure of the element of the porous medium in the form of an integrated elementary microbe (cubes), about each of which it is known whether it contains a substance (bones) or not. According to these data, on the basis of any approximate method, you can build a discrete mechanical model of an element of a porous environment. The most convenient method of sampling (and subsequently calculation) is the most convenient method from the algorithmic point of view [3] [5]. 64 “Lobachev readings - 2019” The highest accuracy of the calculation will be achieved in case of modeling each microbe with a three -dimensional end element of the continuous environment [6]. But in this case, the costs of computers for the creation of a discrete model, post -processor processing of the results and at the stage of processor calculations will exceed all reasonable limits. Therefore, it seems appropriate to increase the dimensions of the final elements, and each in a digital prototype is considered to be the surroundings of the integration point when calculating the stiffness of the final element. The issue of determining the number of squares in each of the directions when integrating the local matrix of stiffness remains unclear. If the number of integration points for each coordinate is not enough, then the accuracy of solving problems based on such an element can be low, since in the simplest case, when integrating, the method of rectangles will have to be used [7] [8]. However, the use of final elements with a very large number of quadrators, although increases the accuracy of integration within the element, can increase the rigidity of the calculated area due to the possibly of the possibly of the elements. The well -known methodology for constructing an eight -naval three -dimensional isprametric final element of the continuous environment with linear approximation of geometry and fields of movements in local coordinates was considered [9]. To assess the effect of the density of filling the final element by the vaults, test tasks were solved, the results of which were compared with the results of the solution in the ANSYS 14.5 package. Varieting the size of the source and setting in each of them the value of computed tomography, a series of numerical experiments for continuous material was performed. It has been established that with an increase in the number of sources, the decision strives for the results obtained in the software complexesans. Based on the dependence of the time execution time on the number of stakes inside the final element, it was concluded that for the most effective solution (optimal