The study of methods for solving the problems of the classification of E.A. Myatlev1, A.A. Belousov2 1 SpacClive@gmail.com; Samara National Research University named after Academician S.P. Koroleva, Institute of Informatics, Mathematics and Electronics 2 Adark@narod.ru; Samara National Research University named after Academician S.P. Koroleva, the Institute of Informatics, Mathematics and Electronics in the article discusses various approaches to solving the problem of classification. Various stages of preliminary processing of documents in the samples, their impact on the final result and possible nuances are considered when using certain approaches. Various categories of classifying algorithms and the features of their use are considered depending on the task. The methods and necessary metrics are described to evaluate the result of the resulting classification. Keywords: text analysis, classification, classifiers Introducing the goal of this work is the study of methods for solving the problem of classification that underlies any system that somehow sorts, catalogs and structures information. It includes preliminary processing of information, highlighting significant features necessary to improve the quality of the classification, and directly the classification itself. Preliminary processing of the document at the first stage of the counting, the document is submitted in the form of many terms. Each term is made in line with weight - the characteristic designating the occurrence of this term. The n-dimensional space obtained in this way is the space of signs for this set of documents. Thus, each document is presented by its vector. The second stage is reduced by the dimension of the space of vectors: all non -letter symbols, punctuation marks, tags, marking symbols are removed. Also, at this stage, stop-word are removed: pronouns, unions, prepositions. Otherwise, they lead to clogging the terms and the rapid growth of their quantity. For categories, you can determine the coefficient of significance within the framework of a specific topic, thereby indicating the importance or illuminance of each term. In addition to removing the terms, you can artificially combine several terms in one: so you can group synonyms or words that are often found in one environment. 128 “Lobachev readings - 2019” The third stage is carried out by lemmetization of thermal - stage, at which each term is leaded to its normal form: a nominative case, the only number, male family and an indefinite form for verbs, participles, and participles. It should be noted that when constructing many terms are not taken into account and various forms of the word are not preserved. The fourth stage is stamping - discarding any variable parts of words, mainly the endings. This process is based on the rules of language morphology. For example, stamming is well suited for English, but somewhat worse for Russian, so its use is not always appropriate. To increase the efficiency of this stage of evidence, you often have to turn to the context of the processed word in the sentence. Synonyms and homonyms are the main reason for the low efficiency of this stage of preliminary processing. The final stage of preliminary processing is weighing the terms. For this, special statistical measures are used, the following two were used in the work: TF -idf (Term Frequency - Inverse Document Frequency) and TF -SLF (Term Frequency - The Sum of Logariphmyc Frequency). The use of the classification algorithm after preliminary processing of documents is processed by the classifier. The ultimate goal of the algorithm is to determine the document in a particular category. Some algorithms need training, but another category does not need training. When using algorithms from the first category, it is necessary to first teach them - to classify with their help a test sample - the sampling of documents correctly marked by categories. Based on this sample, classification will be later made. The second group of algorithms when classifying a document is based on the remaining documents from the sample - the addition or deletion of documents that are obviously belonging to a certain category can improve the quality of the algorithm. The final success of the classification depends on the method of weighing the terms, on how they were led to normal form and on which the classification algorithm was used. The measurement of the quality of the classification in solving the problem of classification must be done behind the metrics of each of the classes and follow the logic of the problem being solved, and not optimizing the metric. Those cases when metrics demonstrate excellent indicators, and the result is far from logically true. Therefore, the number of documents in each category from test and training samples must be selected based on the logic of the problem being solved and metric, according to which it is decided to evaluate the final result. It should also be said that the result