Dual ties of the Abel groups without twisting with their rings E.A. Blagoveshchenskaya1 1 kblag2002@yahoo.com; Petersburg State University of Railways of Emperor Alexander I establishes a dual approach to almost decomposed abelev groups and their rings of endomorphisms. It is used to analyze direct decays of the final rank groups of this class, and is also generalized for certain classes of abele groups of endless ranks. Keywords: Abeli ​​of the groups without twisting, the ring of endomorphisms, we consider the so-called almost completely decomposed Abel groups, which in recent decades have gained wide fame, see [1-2]. The connections of groups from this class with their rings of endomorphisms are investigated, which have the property of duality and are based on the fact that the additive groups of the latter also belong to the class of almost completely declining groups. By definition, the almost completely decomposed group X is an abelev group without twisting the final rank, containing some completely decomposed group A (direct amount of rank groups 1) as a subgroup of the final index. Without belittling community, we believe that a is an unambiguously defined completely characteristic completely decomposed subgroup in the X final index, and we call it a regulator, denoting A = R (X). Let A - a class of almost completely decomposed groups with regulator A. It is known that for any group x ∈A there is a finite set of simple numbers p = p (x), such that x = ∑p et XP is the sum of their completely characteristic subgroups XP ∈ A, for which XP /A is a P-acceptor final group. We denote E = End X, EA = END A, EP = End XP, E = Exp X /A and EP = Exp XP /A. For each p ∈ P, we introduce the natural number ê ∏ qion, q ̸ = p eQ and determine the group X ′ P = XP ê in the divided shell of the XP group, so that êP X ′ P = XP. Obviously, XP ⊂ XP ê and êPep ⊂ ep. The analysis of the connections of almost completely decomposed groups with their rings of endomorphisms is based on the duality of the definitions of these structures, proven in the next theorem. Theorem. Let x = ∑p edp xp ∈A. Then the canonical chains a ⊂ x ⊂ ae and eea ⊂ e ⊂ ea, coincide with the following, ⋂ pchen xp ⊂ p matter xp = ⋂ pĕp xp ê ∑ pĕp xp êp and 36 “Lobachev readings - 2019 ”⋂ p] Literature 1. A. Mader. Almost Completly Decomposable Abelian Groups, Algebra, Logic and Applications, Vol.13, Amsterdam, 1999. - 355 c. 2. E. Blagoveshchenskaya. Almost completely decomposed Abelian groups and their rings of endomorphisms, mathematics at the Polytechnic University, St. Petersburg, 2009.-215 c. Dual Connections Between Torsion-Free Abelian Groups and Their Endomorphism rings e.A. Blagoveshchenskaya a dual approach to almost Completly Decomposable Abelian Groups and Their Endomorphism rings is established. It is used for Direct Decomposition Investigation for Finite Rank Groups of a Given Class, and it is Also Generalized to Certain Classes of Abelian Groups of Infinite Ranks. Keywords: Torsion-Free Abelian Groups, Endomorphism Rings UDC 531/534 Methods for optimizing the geometry of the design of P.V. Bolshakov1 1 bolshakov-pavel@inbox.ru; Department of Theoretical Mechanics of the Institute of Mathematics and Mechanics N.I. Lobachevsky Kazan (Volga) Federal University in the work proposed and implemented algorithms of topological and structural optimization of the structure. The functional dependences of the basic porous element and effective mechanical properties were obtained. Examples of design optimization are given. Key words: topological optimization, structural optimization, additive technologies at present with the development of additive technologies in design tasks have found the spread of the task of topological optimization. Methods of optimal finding parameters describing the geometry and structure of the structure, but at the same time satisfying the strength and technological properties can reduce the dimensions and weight of the product [3-4]. One of the areas of studies is the studies of porous-steps, such geometry is winning in its mass properties, and with the correct design, it can withstand heavy loads. Mathematically, the task can be formulated as: it is necessary to find such a distribution of the tensor of elastic properties E in volume V, that the voltage invariant (in our case, the intensity of the stress in myise) reaches a minimum under constant boundary conditions.