"Lobachev readings - 2019" Literature 1. Bowden K.F. [Physical Oceanography of Coastal Waters]. Ellis Horwood Limited Publish -rs. New York: Halsted Press, 1983, p. 324. 2. Andreev v.K., kaptsov O.V., pukhnachev v.V., Rodionov A.A. [Applications of Group-Theoretical Methods in Hydrodynamics]. U.S.A, Kluer Academic Publishers. 1998, p. 450. (In Russian) 3. Ovsjannikov L.V. [Group Properties of Differential Equations]. Soan ussr. 1962, p. 242. (In Russian) 4. Rodionov A.A. [Hydrostatic Model for An Ideal Fluid: Group Properties of Equations and Their Solutions]. Journal of Siberian Federal University. Mathematics and Physics. 2015, T. 8, No. 3, p. 320-326 (in Russian) 5. Bytev V.O. [Group properties of the Equations of Navier-Koks]. Numerical methods of continuous mechanics. Novosibirsk. 1972, T. 3, No. 3, p. 13-17. ABOUT GROUP ANALYSIS OF HIDROSTATIC MODEL EQUATIONS For A Viscous Fluid A.A. Rodionov, D.A. Krasnova The Group Properties of Three-Dimensional Hydrostatic Model Equations of a Viscous Fluid are investigated. The Examples of Several Exact Solutions Are Pressented. Keywords: Viscous Fluid, Hydrostatic Model, Group Analysis, Exact Solutions UDC 004.89 Automatic image recognition using deep learning ES Rykov1, F.M. Gafarov2 1 Elisricov@yandex.ru; Kazan (Volga) Federal University, Institute of Computing Mathematics and Information Technologies 2 Fgafarov@yandex.ru; Kazan (Volga) Federal University, the Institute of Computing Mathematics and Information Technologies in this article considered the task of creating a text description from the image (Image Captioning) based on the use of deep learning neural networks. To solve the problem, the possibilities of using a hybrid neural network are investigated, which contains a reserve neural network for recognition of objects on images, and a recurrent neural network, for the formation of sentences. This neural network is used to analyze the content of photographs received from students' profiles on the VKontakte social network. Keywords: neural networks, deep training, image processing, social networks recognizing the action on images is a complex task of artificial intelligence [1]. For the first time, the task was solved by Andrei Karpati in his doctoral work at Stanford University - now he is the director of artificial intelligence and autopilot in Tesla. The purpose of this work is to describe what is happening in the image in a text format. To distinguish objects in the image, the methods of E.S. are mainly used Rykov, F.M. Gafarov 161 from computer vision, and for a text description - language models from the field of processing of a natural language. The model that was applied in our study is implemented in Python and is based on the Pytorch machine learning library, a Limpy Library and Calculation Library, the NLTK linguistic libraries and the PICLE module for serialization of complex objects are also used. Rice. 1. The neural network model in this paper we used a neural network, which consists of two parts: encoder and decoder. Figure 1 shows the neural network model: the input image processes the encoder, transmitting the vector to the decoder, which generates the result. Encoder is a sparkle neural network that is responsible for recognition of objects in images. To do this, he uses Resnet152 [1] - a residual model of a neural network to classify images. The second part is a decoder - a recurrent neural network that forms a proposal based on the vector that was transferred to the encoder. The decoder uses the architecture of LSTM [2] - one of the varieties of architectures of long -term memory. Such recurrent neural networks remember information for a long time - this is positive at the learning process. A striking neural network was adopted on the ILSVRC-2012-CLS Dataset [3] from 1,000,000 marked images. The recurrent neural network was previously trained on the language model of the English language. The task of the recurrent neural network is to make a meaningful proposal from the received vectors with image objects, which are conveyed by the reserve neural network. Using LSTM, the model generates a complete sentence, returning alternately and folding the vectors of words together. This hybrid neural network architecture was used for a substantial analysis of photographs from the VKontakte social network. For the study, more than 25,000 photographs of KFU students from their profiles on the social network VKontakte were received. The correlation of students' performance with a description of the image obtained using a neural network was analyzed. As part of the 162 Lobachev Readings - 2019, interdisciplinary research analyzed photographs of academically unsuccessful students who have a average score below 3.7, and successful students who have a average score above 4.3. After performing the work of the program, a “cloud