"Lobachev readings - 2019" UDC 004.93’12 Lencing of objects in the photo using the architecture of the neural network Yolo V3 A.A. Berdnikov1, N.M. Davletshin2 1 Andreyberdnikov1998@gmail.com; Kazan (Volga) Federal University, Institute of Computing Mathematics and Information Technologies 2 Davlet- 9@ya.ru; Kazan (Volga) Federal University, the Institute of Computing Mathematics and Information Technologies, the article is devoted to the creation of a system of rehabilitation of objects in photographs from the social network VKontakte, for the subsequent analysis of the content of objects. The analysis of one of the advanced system, the detection of objects in real time - Yolo. Keywords: Yolo, neural networks, deep training, detection of objects in photographs, recognition of objects in photographs. Detection of objects in photographs using neural networks finds its application in numerous projects. There are various methods for finding objects in photographs, such as: R-CNN, FAST-RCNN, FASTER-RCNN, Retinanet, SSD and Yolo. Data for processing by a neural network was obtained from the pages of users of the social network VKontakte. To obtain data, a request is performed to the users.get API VKontakte. Example of the request (Nagim Davletshin student): 1 R = Requests.get ("https://api.vk.com/method/users.get", 2 params = {"User_ids": 444599814, "Fields": "Crop_Photo" , 3 "Access_token": Access_token, "V": 5.101}) A link to the photo comes to the request: URL: ht t ps: //sun9–27.u...4c/–2G Hy SN4KQ. J PG API VKontakte is an interface that allows you to receive information from the VK.com database using httP checks to a special server. [5] The main purpose of the study was to develop a system for analysis from the main photo from the personal pages of the social network VKontakte users. Deep training - Deep Learning is a set of machine learning algorithms that model high -level abstractions in data using architectures consisting of many nonlinear transformations. [1] Yolo is an algorithm that uses deep, sparkle neural networks to detect objects. The biggest advantage of the Yolo model is reflected in the name - You Only look Once. This model puts a net on the image, dividing it into cells. Each cell tries to predict the coordinates of the detection zone with assessment of confidence for these fields and the probability of classes. Then the assessment of confidence for each detection zone is multiplied by the probability of a class in order to get a final assessment. An example of the Yolo model is illustrated in Fig. 1. A.A. Berdnikov, N.M. Davletshin 231 Fig. 1. The architecture of the Yolo V3 work in the framework of this study used the Python 3.6 programming language (libraries: Numpy, Time, CV2). The solution to the task was made according to the following algorithm. To begin with, the labels of classes are loaded and random colors are installed for each. The paths to the files of the Libra and the Yolo configuration, followed by the Yolo cargo from the disk, are indicated. To download Yolo, the CV2.DNN.READNEDFROMDarkNET (OpenCV) function is used that must take the Configpath and Weightspath parameters: Next, the image is loaded into the neural network and its dimensions are extracted. The names of the output layers from the Yolo model are determined. Blob is built from the picture (function cv2.dnn.blobfromage) and direct passage through the Yolo network is performed. In the future, passing through the layers of the image, the objects of the layer are distinguished and for each its class name and probability are determined. If the found probability of an object is not less than a given minimum, then the initial coordinates X, Y, as well as width and height, are extracted from this object. After the “suppression is not maximum” is used (Cannie's boundaries detector). The resulting objects in the photograph are distinguished by color (for each object its own color was originally set) a rectangular frame. Also for further analysis, data about objects were written to the CSV file in the form: file name, object name and probability. An example of the found objects after image processing on Yolo is shown in Fig. 2. In conclusion of the result of our study, the main goal was achieved - the development of a system for analyzing the contents of the main photograph from personal 232 Lobachev Readings - 2019 "Fig. 2. Found objects on the image of the pages of the social network VKontakte users. Gratitude the study was carried out at the expense of the Grant of the Russian Scientific Fund (project No. 19-18-00253, “Neurosetic psychometric model of cognitive-based predictors of the personality’s life activity based on social networks”) Literature 1. Francois Sh. Deep training on Python-St. Petersburg: Peter, 2018, 2018 . - 400 s. 2. Tarkhov D.A. Neurosete models and algorithms. Directory / D.A. Tarkhov. // M.: Radio Engineering, 2014 .-- 6191 p. 3. Khaikin S. Neuron networks. Full Course / Simon Khaikin. - M.: Williams, 2016 .-- 807 p. 4. Kosinski M.deep Neural Networks Aremore Accurate than Humans At Detecting Sexual Orientation Facial Images