Modeling bone adaptation under the influence of external loading V.V. Yaikova1, D.A. Mukhin2 1 yaikovavictoriya@mail.ru; Department of Theoretical Mechanics of the Institute of Mathematics and Mechanics N.I. Lobachevsky Kazan (Volga) Federal University 2 Dimonchik.2342@yandex.ru; Department of Theoretical Mechanics of the Institute of Mathematics and Mechanics N.I. The Lobachevsky Kazan (Volga) Federal University during the work was familiarized with the methods of describing the structure of bone tissue and models of physical and evolutionary ratios, on the basis of the selected mathematical model, an algorithm for solving the task of restructuring the bone structure under the influence of pressure, a numerical experiment and the results were implemented, and the results were obtained . Keywords: mathematical modeling, non-mogenic media, computed tomography when solving the problems of biomechanics in the section of the human musculoskeletal system, it is necessary to describe the stress-deformed state of bone tissue, given the change in its structure over time [1-3]. Therefore, there is a need to obtain a method due to which a change in the structure of bone tissue will be quantitatively described under the influence of constant load. Wolf’s law is a law describing bone behavior under the influence of various factors, in particular the load. Due to changes in the load, restructuring of bone tissue begins. Wolf’s law says: the bone adapts its structure to the loads that it should withstand [4]. In equilibrium, the main axis of the tensor of deformations should coincide with the main axes of the deviator of the tensor of the structure. The main axes of the tensors coincide if their scalar work is switching. When building a model, it was implied that the material is isotropic and non -sophisticated. From the assumption of the presence of a connection between physical density and mechanical characteristics, the optical density was used to calculate the Yunga module and maximum stresses. The main idea is to build a relationship between a finite element net and CT data. To do this, it is necessary to determine the coefficients of weakening in the nodes on a sampled set, which represents a set of data of nodes and elements. Next, the mechanical characteristics are completely settled for each element, which allows, being in elastic production, to use classic final elements. Evolutionary relationships are known from literature [4], describing changes in the structure of the spongy bone under the influence of various loads. The Cohen model allows you to express nine components of the orthotropy tensor through the normalized own values ​​of the structure of the structure, the second invariant of the structure of the structure and nine functions of the density of the bone matrix [1.3]. The construction of geometry and the calculation were carried out in the universal software 222 Lobachevsky Readings - 2019 system of the ANSYS of of course. In the calculations, the type of the final element SOLID185 with linear approximation was used. On the lower surface of the model, we limit the movement in all directions, we will apply the pressure on the upper surface. An iteration process of step -by -step definition of unknown on each time layer was implemented. To determine the quality of the restructuring of the bone structure, VAT visualization and the distribution of porosity in fixed moments of time were implemented. When solving, 320 iterations were used and a step in time, the step is about 1.2 hours. In the first calculated case, the paintings of the distribution of changes in the proportion of solid material indicate that in a state of homeostatic equilibrium the maximum change in porosity will be observed closer to the upper surface. After 122 iterations, a gradual decrease in the value of the miserable is observed, which suggests that the structure of the structure and tensor of deformation strive for the alignment and the convergence of the mathematical model. In the second calculated case, the stress in myise reaches an asymptotic value already on the 80th iteration. On the first iteration of the localization of maximum stresses and maximum changes in porosity, coincide. Considering the resulting picture of the distribution of stresses, it can be concluded that the maximum normal stresses when the state of homeostatic equilibrium reaches on the lower surface of the model closer to the corners. Based on the results obtained, we can conclude that the bone structure comes into a state of homeostatic balance in about 5 days. Literature 1. Gapta S., Dan P., Bone Geometry and Mechanical Properties of the Human Scapula Using Computed TomoGraphy Data. - Trends Biomater. Artif. Organs., 2004. –VOL.17 (2). - PP. 61-70. 2. Akulich Yu. V. Akulich A. Yu., Denisov A.S., Shaimanov P. S., Shulyatiev A.F. Clarification of the individual dependence of the elastic sulfur bone bones on the volumetric content of the matrix // Russian Journal of Biomechanics - 2014. - T . 18. - No. 2. - C. 158–167. 3. Rho J. Y., Hobatho M. C., Ashman R. B., Relations of Mechanical Properties to Dens