“Lobachev readings - 2019” two series of calculations were held. In the first case, the contact problem was not solved, in the second case, the contact element was introduced between the soil and the concrete walls and the separation and slipping between the walls of the pit and the soil was allowed. An analysis of the results shows that these calculation options are fundamentally different. In the first case, the walls diverge to the sides and the maximum bending (stretching) stresses occur on the inner surface of the retaining walls. This is due to the fact that after the excavation of the soil between the walls, which (in the absence of contact), as it were, pulled the walls, the soil located behind the retaining walls begins to push them apart. This does not happen in the case of contact between the walls and the soil, and in this case, after the soil seizure under the influence of the gravity of the soil behind the walls, they begin to bend inside the pit. In addition, the level of stressful state in this case is much lower. The work was carried out with financial support from the RFFI as part of the scientific project No. 18-31-00419. Study of the Intection’s Processes of Underground Reinforced Structures and Soils with Complex Physical and Mechanical Properties I.K. Baytemirov, I.S. Balafendieva, L.R. Sekaeva The Article Discusses The Modeling of the Phased Construction of Structural Elements Interacting with the soil Mass. Keywords: soil, Three-Dimensional Constructions, Geometric nonlinearity UDC 539.3 Study of the processes of the elastoplastic deformation of soil in the drilling zone and installation of the well I.S. Balafendieva1, A.A. Notfullina2, L.R. Sekaeva3 1 isbalafendieva@kpfu.ru; Kazan (Volga) Federal University, Institute of Computing Mathematics and Information Technologies 2 Aanotfullina@stud.kpfu.ru; Kazan (Volga) Federal University 3 lrsekaeva@kpfu.ru; Kazan (Volga) Federal University in the article considers the modeling of drilling processes and installation of wells to determine the fields of a stress-deformed state. Keywords: soil, drilling, three-dimensional structures, elastoplastic deformation when modeling drilling processes and installation of wells in the oil and gas production industry to determine the fields of a tense deformed state at each stage, the so-called concepts of structural-transforming mechanical systems are introduced. The algorithms used in modeling such tasks suggest that at every step of calculation the stiffness of the entire system can change in a jump. In this case, accounting of the results obtained on the earlier steps of the calculation scheme used, which leads to the need to use the geometric nonlinearity of the calculated L.A. Bigaeva, I.I. Latypov 25 areas. In addition, to solve the problems of drilling and installation of wells, it is often necessary to use the elastoplastic models of soil even at a low level of external loads. In this paper, a technique based on a “modified incremental theory of Lagrange” is used, when the deformation process is presented as a sequence of equilibrium states at the corresponding levels of loading, the determining ratios are introduced in the elements between the true components of the tensors of stresses and deformations. In addition, the joint calculation of the structural elements of the well and soil involves the contact interaction between the elements of the calculated area. For example, the calculation of the stress-deformed and marginal states of the well of the well trunk in the drilling zone is calculated. The calculations were carried out for wells of various depths of drilling and the real occurrence of soils both in elastic and in elastoplastic production. The results of the solution of the problem were compared with the results obtained during the monitoring of the well. The results of the comparison allow us to conclude about the adequacy and effectiveness of the proposed methodology for calculating the stress-deformed and marginal states of the calculation areas, which allows us to more accurately and technically competently make design decisions for various stages of construction work. The work was carried out with financial support from the RFFI as part of the scientific project No. 18-31-00419. Study of the Processes of Soil’s Elastoplastic Deformation in the Zone of Drilling and Well’s Installation I.S. Balafendieva, A.A. Notfyllina, L.R. Sekaeva The Article Discusses The Modeling of Drilling and Wells Installation to Determine The Fields of StressStrain State. Keywords: soil, drilling, Three-Dimensional Constructions, Elastoplastic Deformation UDC 517.956 Study of non-stationary thermal processes in the material when exposed to ultra-crop laser impulses L.A. Bigaev1, I.I. Latypov2 1 Bigla@rambler.ru; Bashkir State University 2 Latypovii@rambler.ru; The Bashkir State University in the report considers the task of finding the distribution of temperature in solid material when irradiation with ultra -crop laser impulses, a two -temperature model of describing transitional phenomena in a nonequilibrium email is given