The study of the processes of interaction of underground reinforced structures and soils with complex physical and mechanical properties of I.K. Baitemirov1, I.S. Balafendieva2, L.R. Secaev3 1 zicmdi@gmail.com; Kazan (Volga) Federal University 2 isbalafendieva@kpfu.ru; Kazan (Volga) Federal University, Institute of Computing Mathematics and Information Technologies 3 Lrsekaeva@kpfu.ru; Kazan (Volga) Federal University in the article considers the modeling of the phased construction of structural elements interacting with the ground array. Key words: soil, three-dimensional structures, geometric nonlinearity in modeling the phased construction of structures of industrial and transport structures to identify the forming fields of a stress-deformed state introduced the concepts of transforming structures or mechanical systems, which, at certain stages of the construction process, move from one structural class to another. The transformation of the calculated scheme occurs discretely when moving from one stage of construction to another. At each step in transformation, the necessary calculations have to be carried out taking into account the results obtained in the mechanical system on previous steps. Such calculations require setting the appropriate tasks of the mechanics, taking into account geometric nonlinearity. To solve geometrically nonlinear tasks in the work, an algorithm is used, implemented on the basis of a “modified incidental theory of Lagrange”, when the deformation process is presented as a sequence of equilibrium states with appropriate loading levels. When modeling the interaction of structures with soils in some cases, various methods of contact interaction of structural elements with each other and with the ground are used to adequately assess the nature of the deformation. Not taking into account contact can lead to a fundamentally different result, to some extent even contradicting common sense. For example, the calculation of the stress-deformed state of the retaining walls of the pit of the metro station during phased work is calculated. Since the pit has the form of a parallelepiped, its length is large compared to its width, the calculation can be carried out in two -dimensional production, in conditions of flat deformation, to identify the main laws of deformation. The mechanical characteristics of discretely located objects during calculations were recalculated to the average values. Discretion is carried out by square final elements of a continuous environment, the thickness of the concrete wall is selected for the basic size of the side of the element. When calculating at the first stage, its own weight of the estimated area was applied. Further, in stages and equal portions, the excavation of soil is carried out. The computing experiment showed that in this task it is enough to take the excavation of all the soil in ten stages. 24 “Lobachev readings - 2019” two series of calculations were held. In the first case, the contact problem was not solved, in the second case, the contact element was introduced between the soil and the concrete walls and the separation and slipping between the walls of the pit and the soil was allowed. An analysis of the results shows that these calculation options are fundamentally different. In the first case, the walls diverge to the sides and the maximum bending (stretching) stresses occur on the inner surface of the retaining walls. This is due to the fact that after the excavation of the soil between the walls, which (in the absence of contact), as it were, pulled the walls, the soil located behind the retaining walls begins to push them apart. This does not happen in the case of contact between the walls and the soil, and in this case, after the soil seizure under the influence of the gravity of the soil behind the walls, they begin to bend inside the pit. In addition, the level of stressful state in this case is much lower. The work was carried out with financial support from the RFFI as part of the scientific project No. 18-31-00419. Study of the Intection’s Processes of Underground Reinforced Structures and Soils with Complex Physical and Mechanical Properties I.K. Baytemirov, I.S. Balafendieva, L.R. Sekaeva The Article Discusses The Modeling of the Phased Construction of Structural Elements Interacting with the soil Mass. Keywords: soil, Three-Dimensional Constructions, Geometric nonlinearity UDC 539.3 Study of the processes of the elastoplastic deformation of soil in the drilling zone and installation of the well I.S. Balafendieva1, A.A. Notfullina2, L.R. Sekaeva3 1 isbalafendieva@kpfu.ru; Kazan (Volga) Federal University, Institute of Computing Mathematics and Information Technologies 2 Aanotfullina@stud.kpfu.ru; Kazan (Volga) Federal University 3 lrsekaeva@kpfu.ru; Kazan (Volga) Federal University in the article considers the modeling of drilling processes and installation of wells to determine the fields of a stress-deformed state. Key words: soil, drilling, three -dimensional structures, elastic deformation