"Lobachev readings - 2019" UDC 004.42 Methods for managing the storage of documents of digital mathematical libraries P.O. Gafurova1 1 polina.mannshtern@mail.ru; Kazan (Volga) Federal University, the Higher School of Information Technologies and Intellectual Systems proposed an algorithm for automatic formation of metadata digital mathematical collections in accordance with the rules of the DSPACE vault, their integration using the DSPACE vault. A review of DSPACE technologies is given, methods of importing metadata into the DSPACE digital storage, the structure of imported documents and the implementation of the marked technologies in the digital mathematical library. Key words: dspace, metadata, digital mathematical libraries, Dublin Core this work is devoted to the processes of managing documents in digital mathematical libraries. These issues have recently come to the fore in connection with the development of the World Digital Mathematical Library (WDML) project and the creation of digital mathematical libraries ([1], [2]). Aggregate mat. Libraries such as mathnet.ru [3], Eudml [4] offer metadata formats, transformation into which requires the creation of specialized tools in digital mathematical libraries, as well as the organization of the storage of digital documents. For the integration of digital documents, the storage and submission of documents have been developed. Among the freely distributed systems the greatest functionality is the platform for creating DSPACE data repositories. The platform allows you to create collections of documents in various formats, search for these collections, import and export metadata [5]. The main metadata format adopted in DSPACE is the Dublin Core format [6]. Adding user formats of metadata formats requires the creation of specialized software tools that provide translation from user formats to the Dublin nucleus format. One of the features of DSPACE is to support the Open Archives Initiative Protocol For Metadata Harvesting (OAI-PMH) [7]. This protocol allows you to collect metadata from other resources, provide metadata, and also monitor access to the database - the download attempt will not go unnoticed. The list of OAI-PMH servers that passed certification is given in [8]. DSPACE metadata can be presented in the form of a CSV file or in the form of Simple Arcive Format - an archive of metadata and files. In the process of import using the CSV file, it is necessary to form a table columns of which have a dublin nucleus format. Then, having filled out this table, it is necessary to export it in the CSV format, and enrage through the Import Metadata service. Data files can be attached to the records in the environment of P.O. Gafurova 61 dspace. This method does not involve automation of the process of loading metadata. In this work, an automation algorithm based on the use of the features of the Simple Arcive Format archive structure is proposed. The storage forms an archive that consists of folders, each of which contains one element. The name of the folders has the form: “Itemxxx”, where the XXX is the folder number. In each such folder, the minimum contents is: Dublin_core.xml file, Content file, files that belong to this element. The Dublin_core.xml file contains a description of the element in the Dublin nucleus format. An example of a file recording is presented in Figure 1. Fig. 1. An example of the Dublin_core.xml file Content includes a list of files that are attached to this entry. It should be noted that the Content file has no extension. As additional files that can be attached - files with a license, as well as when providing metadata in another format of metadata scheme. Further, folders are sealed in the ZIP archive. Loading is carried out through the Batch Import service. Thus, you can download a large number of files and automatically form ZIP archives to download files. Since the DSPACE system operates on a local server, it is necessary to create methods for automatic loading of metadata. To download in DSPACE, an application was written that allows you to organize a collection of files. As a test collection, the files were adopted for downloading to the RSCI. The main stages of the metadata processing algorithm: for each article, the metadata from the XML file is automatically reading, the formation of a set of metadata from them necessary for DSPACE. According to the resulting set, the Dublin_core.xml file is organized, the Content file is formed, the folder is written in the folder. After processing all files, files in Simple Archive Format are archiving. The algorithm is implemented in C#, the input data is XML files containing issues of magazine articles. As a result, we get a ZIP archive, which can immediately be loaded into the DSPACE system. The work proposed an algorithm for the automatic formation of metadata digital mathematical collections in accordance with the rules of the DSPACE storage, integrating them using DSP storage