"Lobachev readings - 2019" UDC 532.685 on the dependence of the oil suppression coefficient on the degree of heterogeneity Kern G.A. Nikiforov1 1 ganikiforov@mail.ru; The Institute of Mechanics and Engineering is a separate structural unit of the Federal State Budgetary Institution of Science “The Federal Research Center“ Kazan Scientific Center of the Russian Academy of Sciences ”in the article is modeling the isothermal course of two incompatible non -laughing liquids in the porous environment, taking into account capillary and gravitational forces. It is believed that oil has Nonnyuton properties. Deviations from the linear law of the filtering of Darsi are taken into account by the introduction of an oil function into the law that depends on the filtration rate. The setting of the problem in the variables "speed-saturation" is used. Numerical examples show the effect of Kern's heterogeneity on the oil supplant coefficient. In the calculations, Kern is made up of well and poorly permeable blocks, while the average value of the absolute permeability of the core is always preserved. It was revealed that the oil suppression coefficient depends on the size of the well and poorly permeable Kern blocks. Keywords: Kern, Nonnyutonovsky oil, a two -phase stream setting the problem solved the task of displacing oil, which has non -nonsense properties, water from a porous body composed of blocks of various permeability. The course is considered isothermal, capillary and gravitational forces are taken into account. The total filtration and water saturation rate is taken as the desired variables. Filtration laws for two phases can be recorded in the form of [1] of the inconsistency equations m ∂si ∂t +di v (ui) = 0. And the equations of movement in the form of a generalized law of Darcy Uo = –K R (UO) FO µO G r ad (PO --Ρo g z), uw = −k r (uw) fw µw g r ad (pw −ρw g z), where m is porosity, k is absolute permeability, pi - pressure in phases, µi - dynamic viscosity, ui - filtration velocity i - oh phase; SI -saturation of the porous body with the I -phase, R (UO) -a dimensionless function that determines the non -linear law, FI -the function of relative phase permeability, ρI -phase density, G -acceleration of free fall. The “w” and “o” indices correspond to the values ​​that characterize the wetting and non -fluid phases accordingly. . The pressure difference in phases is taken equal to capillary pressure: G.A. Nikiforov 133 PO - PW = PC, and phase saturation is satisfied with the condition for complete saturation of the formation with oil and water SO + SW = 1. We introduce the total filtration rate U = UO + UW. In the work [1], in the case of linear filtration (RO (UO) = 1), a method of reducing this system of equations to the system of equations relative to the total rate of filtration U and the saturation of the formation with the wetting phase SW is described. In the case of nonlinear filtering, the calculations do not fundamentally differ, so we will immediately write out the final result (hereinafter, the saturation of the “W” index is lowered): Di V (U) = 0 R OT (U K) = R OT (F G R Ad (PK)) M ∂S ∂T +DI V (FU +Fow G R AD (PK)) = 0 Where KO = K R (UO) FOLEC, KW = K FW µW, K = Ko +KW, Fow = KO KWK, F = KW K Let the filtration process occur in the area of ​​ω with the border ∂ω, consisting of two parts - ∂ω1 and ∂ω2. We assume that for the initial moment of time, the distribution of the saturation S = S0 is known, and on ∂ω a normal component of the filtration rate rate is set, which must satisfy the condition ∫ ∂ωundγ = 0, where n is the external normal to ∂ω. On the part of the border ∂ω1 we will consider the known saturation - s | ∂ω1 = s0 | ∂ω1, and on its other part ∂ω2 - ∂s∂n | ∂ω2 = 0. The numerical results are modeled by the fluid course in a fragment of a oil porous body (core ) 0.03 m dimensions in length and 0.015 m in width. Water is pumped through the left border, and fluid is taken through the right border. The remaining faces are considered impassable. The axes of the coordinate õ and z are associated with the lower surface of the porous body and the input cross section, respectively. The distribution of absolute permeability of the four samples of the core is shown in Figure 2, where K1 = 0.01 µm2, K1 = 0.5 µm2. The porosity of the collector is constant: M = 0.2. At the initial moment in time, the porous body is entirely filled with oil and tied water. Dynamic viscosity of oil µo = 200 mpa · s, water - µW = 1 mpa · s. Water is pumped through the left border, and fluid is taken through the right border. The current area was covered with a uniform mesh of 0.000625 ì along the X and 0.000625 axis along the Z axis. Calculations were interrupted when the flooding of products at the exit from Kern 98%. The function RO (UO), which determines the non -linearity in the law of movement, is shown in Figure 2. Figure 3 shows the fields of water -saturation for each of the samples of the core when the vagrants of the selected products are achieved by 98% of the drawings, it is clear that the size of the congestive zones and the degree of "washing" of the core, And consequently, the oil suppression coefficient also depends on the size of the blocks. In the case of large blocks, there is more oil pillars. 134 "Lobachev readings - 2019" Fig. 1. The scheme of the distribution of permeability in the samples of Kern Fig. 2. Svid fung