Threshold Phenomena in the Model of An Electrochemical Reactor N.M. Firstova  The question of comparing the values ​​of the control parameter for the canard obtained for the dynamical system and the values ​​at which the solution of the stochastic system under consideration becomes unstable, i.e., larger-amplitude oscillations are observed in the system, is posed. The Dynamics of Changes in the Values ​​of the Control Parameter of the Stochastic System with a Change in the Noise Intensity Is Constructed. Keywords: Canards, Random Perturbations, System Stability, Sustainability UDC 004.42 Automated formation of outputs of scientific journals Sh.M. Khaidarov1 1 15jkeee@gmail.com; Kazan (Volga) Federal University proposed a method of automated formation of issues of scientific journals. The method is based on the study of the structure of documents and the structural, style and font characteristics used in them. The method is implemented in the form of a program module of the open publishing system Open Journal Systems (OJS). The results of the method of the method in the electronic journal "Russian Digital Library Journal" are given. Keywords: analysis of the structure of the document, publishing systems, the selection of metadata, the methods of text analysis, Open Journal Systems in [1] The need to create software tools that allow automated mode to cope with large volumes of scientific documents and form new types of documents (collections of articles. issues of magazines, import files into international citation bases, etc.). Also, [2] describes the methods of processing large collections of mathematical documents using ontologies for describing the structure of documents (Doco, Spar, etc.) [3]. The method of automated formation of the issues of scientific journals is based on the study of the structure of documents and the structural, stylistic and font characteristics used in them. As an example, we give features such as the fonts used in the design of the title of the article, the list of authors, affiliation and the main text. The size of the font, their mark and modification are also taken into account. For each metadata block, a list of special words is compiled that characterize this block and show that the line or part of it probably belongs to the desired block of meta -information. The group of such words for the annotation of the article, for example, includes ’Annotation’, ’Bstract ’, etc. To extract the heading under consideration, information is also used in information 202 “Lobachev readings - 2019” that it can be located at the beginning of the article, equalize in the center, and also has a larger and semi -fat font. In the case of the search for the authors, the fact that the indication of them is usually located after the heading of the article is taken into account and satisfies one of the regular expressions describing the possible presentation of the list of authors. For example, the author’s name may contain either the name and surname, or initials and surname. It is assumed that the list of authors can contain no other symbols, except for letters, commas, points and hyphen. The method is implemented in the form of a program module of the open publishing system Open Journal Systems (OJS) [5, 6]. The method is tested in the electronic journal "Russian Digital Library Journal". Note that the quality of the release of metadata depends on the discrepancy on the rules of the given format of the magazine. The work partially contains the results of the project “Monitoring and Standing the Development and Use of Storage and Analysis of Big Data in the Digital Economy of the Russian Federation”, carried out as part of the implementation of the Program of the Center for Competence of the National Technological Initiative “Center for Storage and Analysis of Big Data”, supported by the Ministry of Science and Higher Education The Russian Federation under the agreement of Moscow State University named after MV Lomonosov with the Fund for supporting projects of the National Technological Initiative dated 08.15.2019 No. 7/1251/2019. The work was also carried out with partial support of the RFFIF (projects 18-29-03086, 18-47-160012). Литература  1. Elizarov A. M., Khaydarov S. M., Lipachev E. K.Automated Processing Service System of Large Collections of Scientific Documents // 18th International Conference on Data Analytics and Management in Data Intensive Domains (DAMDID/RCDL 2016). - CEUR WORKSHOP PROCEEDINGS. - 2016. - Vol. 1752. - P. 58–64. -Access mode: URL: http://ceur-ws.org/vol-1752/paper10.pdf. 2. Elizarov A. M., Khaydarov S. M., Lipachev E. K. Scientific documents ontologies for semantic representation of digital libraries // Proceedings of the 2nd Russia and Pacific Conference on Computer Technology and Applications (RPC 2017). - Ieee. - 2017. - P. 1-5. - Access mode: Doi: https://doi.org/10.1109/rpc 2017.8168064. - URL: http://ieexplore.ieee.org/document/8168064/. 3. Peroni S. Semantic Web Technologies and Legal Scholarly Publinging. - Springer International Publing. - 2014. - 304 p. -Access mode: Doi: https://doi.org/10.1007/978-3-319-04777-5. 4. Macgregor J., Stranack K., Willinsky J. Th.