Parametric resonance for bending-circular fluctuations in the B. Affane1 1 boudkhil.Affane@gmail.com; Kazan (Volga) Federal University, Institute of Mathematics and Mechanics. N.I. Lobachevsky article is devoted to the study of the parametric resonance of the steeply oscillations of the console plates arising from bending vibrations. The work is searching for parametric resonance windows of steep fluctuations. For the first two mods of bending, windows of parametric resonance of steep vibrations are built. Keywords: bending vibrations, steep fluctuations, parametric resonance. The introduction of console -fixed rod -type plates, in which the thickness h, width B and length l are such that h ≪ b ≪ L are used, in particular, in determining the logarithmic decrement of oscillations (LDCs) of the material on The basis of the study of fading bending vibrations of test-figures according to the first main fashion, taking into account aerodynamic damping [2, 3]. However, when determining LDK materials based on a study of the forced fluctuations of test-figures by the second forms of bending oscillations, along with the fixed bending vibrations, high-frequency steep fluctuations are also observed. For the correct description of these mechanical effects, the basis of the basic equations of movement, we put the specified geometrically nonlinear equations of oscillations of the elongated plates proposed in the work [1]. For simplicity, equations [1] are analyzed in neglect of damping (internal and external). The model predicts the excitation of steep fluctuations (KC) of the plate due to parametric resonance in the presence of highly amplitude bending vibrations (IR). In this work, the task of theoretical study of this phenomenon is set to build windows of the parametric resonance of the KK. The task boils down to solving the endless chain of ordinary differential equations with periodic coefficients, this chain is being covered and the multipliers of the truncated system are determined and determined. For the first two mods of IR, the parametric resonance windows of steep vibrations are built. It is shown that with typical parameters for the main fashion of the ic of the resonance window, it is extremely narrow, due to which the fixation of the growth of the CC is not possible on the existing experimental equipment. The situation is different for the second fashion. Here, parametric resonance windows are more clearly manifested and the task of their experimental detection 20 “Lobachev readings - 2019” can be set. Fig. 1. Designations in the task of vibration of the plate setting the specified model [1], which describes the bending-circular vibrations of the plate, has the form ρHB3ẅ ebh3 12 (1+ b 2 h2 onic) W IV = 0 (1) ρHB3 12 ∗+ EBH 3 12 12 wor (W ′ ′) 2 - gbh 3 3 ′ ′ ′ = 0 (2) here, then with strokes, differentiation is indicated by X, points - by time t; W is the mixing of the midline of the plate in the direction of the axis Z; ffic - the angle of rotation around the axis Ox; ρ is the effective density of the material of the plate, E and G are the effective module of the Jung and the shift module. The boundary conditions in the studied case meet the rigid sealing of the plate at x = 0 and the free end at x = l: w (0) = w ′ (0) = onic (0) = w ′ (l) = w ′ ′ (l ) = ∗ ′ (l) = 0. (3) the presence of members wor2w &ç (w ′ ′) 2 ensure the interaction of the IK and KC. The component B2H -2 accord of all reasonable cases is much less than one. They can thus neglect the reverse influence of the KK on the IR is neglected. We assume that the KK occur along one of the own mod w = awk (x/l) cos (ω k (i k) t) (4) here a -amplitude of the oscillations of the end of the plate, ωk (i k) -the intensive frequency of oscillations, the WK function describes the WK function The profile of its own oscillations, WK (1) = 1, the index K indicates the fashion number. Further, the calculations will be carried out for the first two mods. Theoretical reasoning on K is not dependent, so we will so far lower this index. Normalizing the spatial coordinate on L, time - on ω - 1 (i k) and preserving the previous designations behind them, convert (2) to the species (π 2ω) 2 accord) - pan ′ ′+ s2r (x) ∗n2 t = 0, r (x ) = (W ′ ′ (x)) 2. (5) The parameters S = √ E G B A 2HL, ω = ω (K p) ω (i k) are the dimensionless amplitude of the IR and the ratio of the frequency of the IR to the main frequency of the own steep oscillations. It is necessary to analyze the trivial solution to equation (5) with boundary conditions wor (0) = 0, ′ ′ (l) = 0 for stability in relation to infinitely small disturbances. B. Affan 21 The solution of the problem in the main member conducting the transition to the endless chain of the ode and holding the main member in the decomposition The task boils down to one differential equation of the second order (Hill equation) C̈ + 4 π2 ω2µ (s2 sin2 t) C = 0 (6) here (6) And then, for simplicity of recording, the lower index 1 for µ and C is lowered. With each fixed ε and ω, we determine the solution of the equation (6) subordinate to the conditions C0 (0) = 1, ċ0 (0) = 0 in the period [0, π]. Similarly, the equation of Mathieu, depending on the size C ∗ = C0 (π), the stability is assessed and the multiplierρ = | C ∗ | + √ c2 ∗ −1 of the regimes card is convenient to represent in the plane (ω, s). Counts for Sl