-calculation of linear orders with the attitude of the neighborhood of R.I. Bikmukhametov1, M.S. Ereyashkin2, A.N. Frolov3 1 ravil.bkm@gmail.com; Kazan (Volga) Federal University 2 mikhail.ryashkin@gmail.com; University Innopolis 3 andrey.frolov@kpfu.ru; Kazan (Volga) Federal University in the work considers computable linear orders, the signature of which is enriched with the attitude of the neighborhood. A description of the 1-calculation of such orders was obtained. The line of order was also described for which 1-calculation entails 2 calculation. Keywords: linear orders, 1-calculation, the ratio of neighborhood, density ratio, the ratio of the maximum, internally computable relations with the algebraic structure with the final signature are called computable, if the main set and all relations and functions of the structure are computed. In particular, the linear order is calculated if its main set and the ratio of the order are calculated, and (of course) the enriched linear order is calculated, if the order itself is calculated, and all added predicates are calculated. The most natural attitude on a linear order is the attitude of the neighborhood of S. Two elements of a linear order are called neighboring if there is no other element of this order between them. M. Moses [1] showed that linear order is 1-computable and only when the order and its attitude of the neighborhood are calculated. The linear order is called N-calculated (or n-perishable), if all formulas above its signature with N quanters are evenly calculated. The work discusses linear orders, the signature of which is enriched with the attitude of the neighborhood. In other words, computable algebraic structures with two binary relations are considered, the first of which is the attitude of a linear order, and the second is the attitude of the neighborhood, agreed with the attitude of the order. We will call such structures with 1-line order. This definition is consistent with the above result of M. Moses [1] on the description of 1-computed linear orders. Namely, 1-computed linear orders are computable 1-line order. Throughout the history of studies of computable linear orders, the circle of the most natural and applicable relations on them has been formed. In addition to the relationship between the neighborhood s, this circle includes the relationship of the block f, density DN, the limit on the right p+ and the limit on the left P -. Recall the definitions of these relations. Two elements are in relation to the block if the final 34 “Lobachev readings - 2019” between them are the number of elements. An element of linear order is called the limit on the right (left) if it does not have the right (left) neighbor. Two elements of the linear order are in relation to density, if many elements between them have type η. When describing 2-nyes of linear orders of A.N. Frolov [2] introduced relations QN. Two elements of the linear order are in relation to QN if in many elements between them the length of the maximum blocks is less than N. Note that Q1 = DN. The following description of 1-computing 1-line order was obtained. Theorem. Let L - linear order. Then the following conditions are equivalent: (1) (l, s) are 1-compaling 1-linear order; (2) L is a 2-computed linear order; (3) L is a computable linear order in which the relations S, P+, P - and QN are calculated for any N> 0. M. Moses [3] showed that the linear order has an internally calculated from wearing neighborhood and only then When the order contains the final number of pairs of neighboring elements. Recall that the attitude on the calculated structure is called internally computable if it is computable in any computable representation of this structure. Consequence. Let l-1-line order. Then the following conditions are equivalent: (1) every computable copy L is 1-computed 1-linear order; (2) Relations P+, P - and QN for any N> 0 are internally calculated on L; (3) L has the form K0 +F0 +K1 +F1 +· +KN - 1 +FN -1 +KN, where FI is finite and not empty, and each Ki either has the type Kη, or Ki contains only the final number maximum on the right and maximum elements on the left. The work was carried out with financial support from the RFFIF (project 18-31-00174 "Algorithmic aspects of linear orders and relations on them"). Literature 1. Moses M. Recursive Linear Orders with Recursive Successivities // Ann. Pure Appl. Logic. - -1984. - -V. 27. -P. 253–264. 2. Frolov A. N. Low Linear Orderings // J. Logic Comput. - 2012. - V. 22, No. 4. - S. 745–754. 3. Moses M. Relations Intrinsically Recursive in Linear Orders // Z. Math. Logik Grundlag. Math. - 1986. - V. 32. - P. 467–472. 1-Computability of Linear Orders with The Successial Relation R.I. Bikmukhametov, M.S. Eryashkin, A.N. Frolov In this Paper We Consider Linear Orders, In Which The Signature Is Added Successivity Relation. We Obtain a Description of 1-Computability of these Linear Orders. WE ALSO Obtain A Description of Linear Orders for Which 1-Computability Implies 2-Computability. E.A. Blagoveshchenskaya 35 Keywords: Linea