“Lobachev readings - 2019” Literature 1. Mareev E. A. Achievements and prospects for the research of the global electric circuit // Success of physical sciences - 2010. - T. 180 - No. 5. - C. 527–534. 2. Tolmachev V.V., Golovin A.M., Potapov V.S. Thermodynamics and electrodynamics of the continuous environment. - M.: Moscow State University, 1988. - 232 p. 3. Kalinin A.V., Slyunaev N. N., Mareev E. A., Zhidkov A. A. Stationary and non -stationary models of the global electric circuit: correctness, analytical ratios, numerical implementation // Physics of the atmosphere and ocean. –2014. - T. 50. - No. 3. - C. 314–322. 4. Zhidkov A.A., Kalinin A.V. The correctness of one mathematical task of atmospheric electricity // Bulletin of the NSU named after N.I. Lobachevsky - 2009. – No. 4. - C. 123–129. 5. Kalinin A. V., Slyunyaev N. N. Initial-Boundary Value Problems for the Equations of the Global Atmosphereic Electric Circuit // J. Math. Anal. Appl. - 2017. –T. 450 - No. 1. - P. 112–136. 6. Girault V., Raviart P. Finite Element Methods for Navier - Stokes Equations. -N.Y.: Springler-Werlag, 1986.-387 p. Modeling of Quasistationy Electromagnetic Fields A.V. Kalinin, S.R. Lavrova This Paper Discusses The Modeling of the Global Electric Circuit in the Earth’s Atmosphere of a Quasistationy Electric Approximation. ALSO The Existence and Uniquense of the Solution for this Problem is established. Keywords: the Maxwell’s system of equations, the global electric circuit, quasistationary electric approximation, ionospheric potential  УДК 519.233.6  ПОСЛЕДОВАТЕЛЬНАЯ ПРОЦЕДУРА ОТБОРА ПОПУЛЯЦИИ С НАИБОЛЬШИМ СРЕДНИМ ДЛЯ НОРМАЛЬНОЙ-НОРМАЛЬНОЙ МОДЕЛИ, ОСНОВАННАЯ НА  КОНЦЕПЦИЯХ ПЕРВОГО ПЕРЕСКОКА И ЗАГЛЯДЫВАНИЯ ВПЕРЁД И.А. Kareev1 1 kareevia@gmail.com; Kazan (Volga) Federal University, the Institute of Computing Mathematics and Information Technologies The article discusses a new approach to building a consistent procedure for statistical selection of a population with the largest average of several of the several. The task is considered within the framework of the normal-non-norm Bayesian paradigm with a certain dispersion of the population and the parameters of a priori distribution. When constructing the procedure, an original symbiosis of the idea of ​​the first jump of aposterior risk for a given level and the idea of ​​looking forward is used. Keywords: selection procedure, Bayesov approach, consistent procedure, first jump, looking forward, normal-normal model I.A. Kareev 87 Let ξ ∼ n (ϑi, σ2), where ϑi is the implementation of a random value ϑi ∼ n (µ, τ2), and σ2, µ, τ2 are the known parameters of the model. Such a production corresponds to the Bayes-Normal-Normal model. The task of statistical selection is considered: according to the results of observations from the population ξ1 ,. . . , oring it is required to determine the largest of θ1 ,. . . , θp. From the selection procedure ffic that solves this problem, the implementation of restrictions on the probability of a correct solution is required: p (ϑδ ≥ϑ j, j ∈ {1,., P}) ≥ p ∗, (1) where δ denotes the final solution of the criterion gment in experiment, and p ∗ ∈ (0.1) - a given restriction. In this work, the selection procedure based on the ideas of the first jump (see [1, 2]) and looking forward (see [3]) is proposed. We describe the procedure with a description of the three rules: stop rules, decision -making rules and management rules. Next through T = 0.1.2 ,. . . The stage of the experiment will be indicated, and through x (t) = {x (t) 1 ,. . . , X (t) p} -many selective data obtained to the t -th stage of the experiment, where X (t) I is the selective data obtained by the observation of the I -TO population. Note that the consistent procedure under consideration involves taking exactly one observation at each stage of the experiment, so that the value T will coincide with the total sample volume to the t-th stage of the experiment. 1. Rule of stopping ising. Let С (t) = 1 denotes the stop of the experiment at the stage t, and uction (t) = 0 - its continuation. We ask} as follows: uction = i (∃i: p (ϑi> max j ϑ j | x (t)) ≥ p ∗), where I is an indicator function. ip can be interpreted as follows - the experiment should be completed as soon as the Bayesian aposterior probability of its best extension for a given restriction p ∗. In general, such a stop rule corresponds to the standard methodology for constructing optimal Bayesov procedures for statistical output. 2. The rule of the decision pper. The value of uction takes as a value one of the population indices, and determines the final solution of the selection procedure after stopping the experiment. We ask lus as follows: ∗ argmax i p (ϑi> max j ϑ j | x (t)). As usual for the Bayes paradigm, a population with the greatest aposterior probability is made as a decision (i.e., which has a mathematical expectation with the greatest aposterior probability). 3. The rule is controlled. The main innovation of the proposed procedure is in a special task of the management rules. The value of the ivil indicates the number of the population from which the SL should be made