"Lobachev readings - 2019" among themselves using the Internet. Another distinguishing feature of the network is the ability to expand the existing functionality, which allows engineers and programmers to develop their programs for distributed execution in the computer. Despite all the features of network interaction and the specifics of the described software, the system is safe for operation and requires a small amount of computing resources. At the moment, the system has implemented all the main functions that were planned at the design stage. The original software code is in the public domain, while the system itself is supplied in the form of images that are periodically loaded into the public storage of Docker Hub images. Any interested person can run containers with the system and start work without installing additional software. Literature 1. Narayanan A., Bonneau J., Felten E. Bitcoin and Cryptocurrency Technologies: A Comprehece Introduction - Princeton: Princeton University Press, 2016. - 336 C. 2. Yan S. Cryptanalytic Attacks on RSA - Berlin: Springer, 2008. - 255 c. 3. Hoffstein J., Pipher J., Silverman J. an Introduction to Mathematical Cryptography - Berlin: Springer, 2014. - 538 c. 4. Nickoloff J., Kuenzli S. DoCker in Action-New-York: Manning Publications, 2019.-350 c. The Distributed System for High-Speed ​​Mathematical Computations A.S. Dolgopolov This Paper Briefly Describes The Distributed System Intended for High-Speed ​​Mathematical Computations. The Main Goal of the Project is to Make It Simple to Utilize Computer Resources. The Node Project May Be Used in Non-Profit Fields Like Scientific Volunteer Computations, Or Bitcoin Mining. The System Is Easy To Use and Simple to Extend, So Engineers Or Mathematicians with Decent Programming Can Develop Their Own Distributed Tasks with No Pain. The Project Is Entirely Open-Source and Contribution Friendly. Keywords: Distributed Systems, High-Speed ​​Computations, Security, Open-Source, Development UDC 004.9 Implementation of Persepthron with three hidden layers of social network S.K. Enikeev1, G.Z. Vakhitov2 1 S.Enikeeva1@mail.ru; Kazan (Volga) Federal University, Higher School of Itis 2 Gzvahitov@kpfu.ru; Kazan (Volga) Federal University, the Institute of Computing Mathematics and Information Technologies The article discusses the use of neural networks in the task of classifying numerical data of the profile of social network users. The study of the user's numerical metrics showed that the construction of the classifier is a difficult to formalize task, since the trends in the data are very weak. The not S.K. Enikeev, G.Z. Vakhitov 79 was less able to create a classifier, the effectiveness of which is on average 80%. Statistical analysis showed that the specificity of the processed data does not allow increasing the accuracy of the classifier. Keywords: multi -layer Persepthron, social networks, academic success, prognostic, psychometry mathematical processing of the user of the social network allows us to obtain information about the user not reflected in the profile. Such information can be useful for creating samples with given properties, for example, for a thoughtful formation of the circuit breaker. The possibility of predicting academic success among students is of particular importance, as this reduces the risk of mismatch between expectations to a university graduate as a specialist who can solve production problems and the level of his professional readiness. In the work, a classifier is implemented, dividing the sample of students regarded as users of the social network into two classes: students with high and low performance. As a classifier, a multilayer neural network was used. For the training of the network, the teaching technology with the teacher was used. The training and testing of the network was carried out on samples related to students of technical specialties. The effectiveness of the network is an average of 80%. An interesting fact is that the lowest efficiency (73%) was achieved in the training sample. In test samples, the effectiveness was higher. The highest accuracy was 91%. The network is a Perseptron with three hidden layers. The input layer contains 5 neurons, the first hidden layer is 210 neurons, the second -10 neurons, the third two and the output layer of one neuron. The summary function in the neurons of the first hidden layer has a specific appearance: s (1) j = 5∑ i = 1 II j × wi j × xi, where J is the neuron number on the first hidden layer, I is the number of the input neuron, XI value of the input neuron , - Wi J weight characterizing the relationship between the i -hut neuron and a J -hh hidden neuron, II J is a nidicator that takes the values ​​of 0 or 1, depending on the value of the corresponding input neuron. The function of activation on neurons of the first hidden with