"Lobachev readings - 2019" Keywords: Mathematical Education, Visual Thinking, Cognitive -Visual Approach, Methodics of Studying Mathematical Anac 519.63 Solution of Energy Equation in the lubricated layer of stubborn bugs P.E. Fedotov1 1 Paulfedotov@mail.ru; Kazan (Volga) Federal University, the Institute of Computing Mathematics and Information Technologies The purpose of this work is to build and numerical study of the grid circuit for a three -dimensional thermal conductivity equation with dominant convection that arises when modeling the tasks of the hydrodynamic theory of grease of stubborn bearings. When constructing the scheme, the option of the Galryerkin method was used. Numerical experiments have been carried out that demonstrate the convergence of the grid pattern on the sequence of thickening nets. Keywords: the breakdown method of Galryerkin, the regional task, bearing, the thermal conductivity equation for the methods of constructing grid patterns for regional tasks for the thermal conductivity/diffusion equations with dominant convection and their solution is given great attention. The tasks of this type include the regional task considered here about the spread of heat in the lubricant layer of the stubborn bearing, which is the component of the energy equation describing the spread of heat in the disk and pillows of the stubborn bearing. Persistent bearings used in compressors have fixed pillows and a rotating disk, between which lubricant proceeds [1]. The surface of the pillow is profiled. Therefore, the thickness of the gap h of the lubricant is a variable. Between the pillows there are interdow up channels through which lubrication is supplied. A stubborn bearing has a periodic structure, therefore, only an element of frequency can be considered. Under the area ω then we mean the area of ​​the lubricant layer of the element of frequency. When modeling the dynamics of the bearing, we will use the cylindrical coordinate system. Through R, ∗, Y, we denote the coordinate axes corresponding to the radius, corner coordinate and thickness of the lubric layer. The inpatient equation of thermal conductivity in the sabotage form has the following type Di V (v t −k∇t) = f, x ∈, (1) where the speed vector and the heat conductivity coefficient have the form V =  vrv pul  k =                        0 0 00 kworqu Kyç 0 ky pul ky y  . P.E. Fedotov 195 Complete the equation (1) with the regional conditions. According to the coordinate gment, the condition of the periodicity is assumed. In the direction Y within the interdes' channel, on the conventional border y = h (r, gment), a condition for sucking lubrication is placed. On the border of the γy stubborn disk and pillows, a condition of the third kind is placed (v t −k∇t) · ν+ωαt = g, x ∈ γy. (2) The choice of such a condition is due to the fact that the solution of the energy equation for the system - the disk - pillow - lubricant layer requires the use of methods of decomposition of the calculated region [2, p. 59]. The equation has the following feature. According to the variable R, only convective terms are present. It is assumed that the speed of VR determines the expiration flows on the external and internal radii of the region [1]. Therefore, the boundary conditions are not set there. The thickness of the lubricating layer H is a variable in connection with the profiling of the pillow, as well as possible temperature deformations. Therefore, we will preliminarily replace the variables r = r̄, ∗ = ∈, y = h (r, gment) ȳ, which translates the original calculation area into a rectangular one. It is important that, after replacing the variables, the resulting equation retains a sabotage look. The Jacobi matrix of such a transformation is given below J =  1 0 0 0 1 0 –h ′ r ȳ h ′ ′ ϕ h 1 h  . Variation representation of the initial task allows you to obtain the replacement of variables in the equation, which retains the sabotage form of its recording: di v (v̄ t - k̄ ∇̄t) = f̄, x ∈ ω̄, (3) here V̄ = JV | J - 1 | K̄ = jk j t | j - 1 |, f̄ = f | j - 1 |. The boundary condition (2) will acquire the type (v t −k j t ∇̄t) · ν+ωαt = g, x ∈ γy. For a numerical solution to the problem (3), a scheme of the explosive method of gallerykin (DGM) with rectangular elements was built. The choice of opposite DGM for the approximation of the original equation is due to the local conservativeness of the net schemes built on its basis, low schematic viscosity, as well as their stability for a wide class of tasks with dominant convection in a wide range of grid parameters. During the construction of the scheme, a piece-to-standing inside the calculating region ω̄H and a piece of line near the boundaries of the γy space of approximating functions were used. The method of constructing schemes of this type is given in [3]. The grid circuit allows you to reduce the task (3) to the mesh equation, which in the operator form of the recording has the form (AV + AQ + Amb) UH = F + FG. (4) 196 “Lobachev Readings - 2019” here UH is a suitable approximation of the temperature t. Operators in the equation (3) are determined by the following forms AV UH · WH = = ∑ KMOℑH ∫ K (−UHV̄ · ∇̄WH) D X + γ \ γY ∫ γ γ [uh, + p (v̄ · p) - uh, −p (v̄ · p)+] (white,+p −wh, −p) d x, aq uh · when ∑ k ∫ k qh ∇̄whd x+∑ \ γ γy ∫