The Dirichlet Problem on a Two-DimenSion Network L.A. Kovaleva The Article Deals with The Dirichlet Problem for Harmonic Functions on a Two-Dimensional Network (Complex) Consisting of Plane Convex Polygons. The Solvability of the Problem in Helder Spaces with Weight Was Prved, The Index Value in the Corresponting Spaces Was Found. The Power-Logarithmic asymptotics of the Solution Near the Vertices of the Complex is obtained. Keywords: Dirichlet Problem, Two-Dimensional Network, Helder Spaces, Asymptotics of the Solution UDC 517.988.8 On one type of aposterior assessments of the regulatory algorithms of M.M. Kokurin1 1 kokurin@next@mail.ru; Mari State University considers a special class of aposterior assessments of the error of regulatory algorithms for incorrect tasks. The assessments of this class, called evenly aposterior, unlike other aposterior assessments do not contain non -constructive conditions for the level of input error. The characteristic of the class of conditionally correct tasks in terms of regulatoryness with evenly aposterior errors of error is given. Keywords: an incorrect task, a regulatory algorithm, an aposterior assessment of the error following [1; 2], first we give us the necessary definitions. Under the abstract computing task (below - just a task) is understood the totality (G, D (G), X, Y), where x = (x, ρx) is the metric space of input data, y = (y, ρy) - metric space of solutions , G: X → Y - the operator with the Determination area D (G) ⊂ X, which in accordance with each element f ∈ D (G) describing the input data, the corresponding solution G (f) ∈ Y. It is assumed that the solution G (F) is only for f ∈ D (G) and there are no solutions if f ∉ D (G). The task (G, D (G), X, Y) is called correct if D (G) = x and operator G: X → Y Continued. The task (G, D (G), X, Y) is called conditionally correct if the operator G is relatively continuous in its area of ​​definition D (G), i.e. If ∀ f ∈ D (g), ∀ {fn} ⊂ d (g) ({fn} x → f), {g (fn) → g (f). In applied tasks, instead of the exact element F ∈ X, it is usually known for f sec fitis ∈ X, ρx (fδ, f) ≤ Δ with a certain level of error δ> 0. It is natural to assume that the exact element F belongs to the area of ​​determination D (G), those. that the solution is G (f) ∈ Y exists. If the task (G, D (G), X, Y) is correct, then the G (FPON) element is also determined and with small δ can be approximated in the metric of space Y for the desired solution G (F). If the task under consideration is incorrect, then the G (FPON) element may not exist, since the approach of fδ does not necessarily belong to D (G). Moreover, if fδ ∈ D (G), 102 “Lobachev readings - 2019”, then the G (FPA) element may not be close to G (F) in the metric of space Y with arbitrarily small δ. If the task (G, D (G), X, Y) is not correct, but at the same time it is conditionally correct, then the G (FPON) element is also not necessarily defined, however, in the case of f sec ∈ D (G), it can serve as an approximation To solve G (F) in the sense of the ρY metric with fairly small Δ> 0. In practice, stable methods for solving incorrect problems are built using regulatory algorithms. Family of Dispositions {Rδ: X → Y} Δ> 0 is called a regulating algorithm if D (rδ) = x for all Δ> 0 and ∀ f ∈ D (G), lim Δ → 0 Sup f sec) (f) ρy ( Rδ (fδ), g (f)) = 0. Hereinafter bδ (f) = {g ∈ X | ρx (f, g) ≤ Δ}. The regulatory algorithm allows you to find the approximation of Rδ (fδ) ∈ Y to the exact solution G (f) ∈ Y, where f ∈ D (G), if the approximate input data of f capital and error level Δ> 0. Aposterior error assessment [3–– 5] the regulatory algorithm {rδ} Δ> 0 for the task (G, D (G), X, Y) is the functionψ (δ, fδ), determined with any δ> 0 and fδ ∈ Bδ (f), f ∈ D ( G) and satisfying the following two conditions: (a) ∀ f ∈ D (G), lim Δ → 0 Sup fux (f) ψ (δ, fδ) = 0; (B) ∀ f ∈ D (g), ∃δ0 (f)> 0: ∀δ ∈ (0, Δ0 (F)], ∀ fδ ∈ Bδ (F), ρY (rδ (fδ), G (f) ) ≤ψ (δ, fδ). From the given definition, it is clear that the presence of an aposterior assessment does not allow us to guarantee the distance from the approximate solution of Rδ (Fδ) to the exact solution of G (F) due to the fact that instead of element F in practice, only it is known The approximation of fδ and for the existing δ is not able to check the condition Δ ∈ (0, Δ0 (F)]. Consider the following modification of the determination of the aposterior assessment of the error, devoid of this disadvantage. evenly apostarior assessment of the error of the regulatory algorithm {rδ} δ> 0 for the task (g , D (g), x, y) we will call the function ψ (δ, fδ), determined with any δ> 0 and fδ ∈ Bδ (f), f ∈ D (G) and satisfying the condition (A), as well as the next Condition: (b ′) ∀ f ∈ D (g), ∀δ> 0, ∀ fδ ∈ Bδ (f), ρy (rδ (fδ), g (f)) ≤ψ (δ, fδ). Here we count that the function is ψ (δ, fδ) can take non -negative numerical values ​​or value+φ, i.e. ψ: [0,+φ) × x → [0,+urb]. Practical the value of evenly apo -steroric assessments is that they potentially allow you to get an arbitrarily accurate