Rellich Type inquality on Tubular Sets N.A. SARAMBAEV There Are Rellich Type Inequalites in 3-Dimensional Tubular Domains in this Paper. Tubular Element is the Set, White Was Built by Rotation of 2-Dimensional Bounding Domain Around a Straight Line. Thia Line May Be Infinite Far from A Domain. Rellich Type inquality may be ussed to estimate Magnetic Potential. Keywords: Rellich Type inquality, Tubular Element, Tubular Set UDC 004.912 The use of thematic modeling in assessing the complexity of educational texts A.S. Sakhovsky1, V.D. Soloviev2 1 and2900@inbox.ru; Kazan (Volga) Federal University, Higher School of Information Technologies and Intellectual Systems 2 Maki.Solovyev@mail.ru; Kazan (Volga) Federal University, the Institute of Philology and Intercultural Communication in this work, a study of the complexity of educational texts in Russian using thematic modeling. In the course of the work, the quality of thematic models received using different approaches to thematic modeling was assessed. As a result of the study, dependencies were found between the complexity of books and the properties of those to which they are devoted. Keywords: thematic modeling, latent placement of airships, additive regulator of thematic models, the complexity of the text. Introduction The problem of choosing educational materials, best of the corresponding target audience, is becoming more and more acute in the conditions of expanding the list of textbooks recommended for use in the implementation of educational programs. On the other hand, with the development of modern methods of automatic processing of a natural language, there are more and more possibilities for solving this problem. In this work, the use of various thematic models is considered in the analysis of the complexity of textbooks on social studies. Models and data for research were selected two collections of textbooks on social studies. The first collection consists of books of authorship L.N. Bogolyubov, corresponding to the years of study from 6 to 11. The second collection consists of A.F. Nikitin, corresponding to the years of study from 5 to 11. The number of books in each collection is 7. 180 “Lobachev Readings - 2019” before building thematic models, the following methods of evidence of the text collection were applied: (I) separation of texts into sentences, (II) Lemmatization Words, (III) Determination of parts of speech of words. When using methods (II) and (III), the UDPipe library was used. When constructing thematic models, both the (I) building of full texts of books (I) of the buildings (II smaller documents: (II) segments (III) paragraphs of paragraphs (Paragraphs) were considered. We denote for D many documents of a text collection containing words from the set W (dictionary) related to topics t. Then each document d ∈ D can be presented as a discrete distribution θ (d) on the set of topics: p (zw = t) = θTD, where ZW is a discrete variable characterizing the theme of the word W ∈ D. Each topic is a multinomy distribution of words: p (w | z j = t) = φW T (moreover, W is a word from the dictionary, and Z J corresponds to a concrete wording in the document. Different tires can relate to the same word from the dictionary). Let ND W - the number of use of the word W in the document D, ND - the number of words in the document. Then the frequency of the word in the document has the form: p̂ (w | d) = ND WND. The task of thematic modeling is to find the approximate representation of the frequency matrix in the documents: p = (p̂ (w | d) ) T × D: P = θ × φ. As part of this work, the following thematic models were used: (I) Latent Dirichlet Allocation (LDA) [1], (II) Online LDA [2], (III) Additive Regularization of Topic Models (ARTM) [3]. A feature of models (I) and (II) is the use of the assumption that the columns θd and φt are stochastic vectors generated by the dirichle distributions. Distribution parameters of the conductor are hyperparameters of the model. The ArtM model allows you to impose additional restrictions on thematic models expressed as a linear combination of an arbitrary number of regulators. Experiments in assessing the quality of thematic models considered the quality metrics of both individual topics and all many topics in aggregate. Within the framework of this work, the following quality metrics were used: 1) metric based on distributed representations of Word2VEC words [4]; 2) the metric of coherence of the topics of the Normalized Pairwise Mutual Information (NPMI) [5]; 3) DiverSity [6]. When using the first two of the listed metrics, it was estimated by the shaft of individual topics. The average assessment of its topics was accepted for assessing the model. As part of the approach to assessment based on vector representations of Word2 words