. The Relations Sn L O Computable Linear Orders and Their Correlats Ya.A. Michailovskaya this Paper is devote to the study of corrections of the Relations SN L N N NU A Computable Linear Orderl. In this paper, we constructed some examples of computable linear orders, on which the relations Sn L  and Sn+1 L  have different Turing degrees, and also a closing upwards of the relation Sn L on non-η-like  computable linear orders in the Class of All Computably Enumerable Degrees Was Studved. Keywords: Computable Linear Order, Touring Degree, Computably Enumerable Degree UDC 51: 519.63+519.688 Front-Removing and Differential model of abnormal diffusion: Appendix to describing the polarization process of segmentallectrics L.I. Moroz1, A.G. Maslovskaya2 1 svpn.1402@gmail.com; Federal State Budgetary Educational Institution of Higher Education "Amur State University 2 Maslovskyaag@mail.ru; The Federal State Budgetary Educational Institution of Higher Education “Amur State University in the work proposes a fractal mathematical model of hysteresis phenomena in segnertoelectric materials using the concepts of fractional differentiation. The mathematical model is formalized as an initial-border task for the equation of abnormal diffusion. Based on the approximation of the fractional derivative according to the Grunwald -Sumynikov formula, an implicit variable scheme for solving the task was designed. A software solution has been developed for computer modeling. The results of a computational experiment are presented. Keywords: the equation of abnormal diffusion, the Landau -Khalatnikov equation, Grunwald - Sumynikova formula, implicit scheme, modeling modeling of segotoelectric, segnelet electric hysteresis 122 “Lobachev readings - 2019” Introduction. Currently, the theory of fractional differentiation has been active, which has found its application in physics, chemistry, economics, mechanics and other areas of science [1]. With the help of fractional calculus, the processes occurring in fractal structures with complex topological properties and in systems that show the effects of memory or ereditarianism can be described. The result of the three-century history of the development of the fractional and radio apparatus was the existence of several non-excessive approaches to determining the derivative of a non-kissed order: Riman-Liuville, Grunvald-Sumynikov, Kaputo, Marshu, etc. Despite their differences, in case of a whole order, all of them coincide with the concept of a conventional derivative . In the practice of a numerical solution, the fractional and dissection of the problems was most widely used by the final formula of Grunwald-Sumynikov: dison (x) d Xθ = 1 γ (–θ) 1 hθ r∑ i = 0 γ θ (i-+1) ) y (x-i h), (1) where θ is the order of the fractional derivative, γ is the gamma function of Euler, h is the step of the spatial grid. As an object of mathematical modeling, we choose a class of polar materials with the properties of self -likeness and the effects of memory - segotoelectric [2]. One of the important features of the segotoelectric materials is a hysteresis dependence of polarization on the attached field. Since switching polarization and the dynamics of domains in segotoelectrics are of important fundamental and practical significance, scientific interest is the construction and implementation of the model of segotoelectric hysteresis. Therefore, the purpose of this work was to develop and the numerical implementation of the fractal model of segotheelectric hysteresis based on a fractional-radical approach. Mathematical setting of the problem. The phenomenological theory of Landau - Ginzburg - Devonshire in relation to segotheelectrics allows us to describe the connection between the intensity of the electric field å and polarization ð [3, 4]. For a non -stationary case, the Landau -Khalatnikov equation is used. Having complemented the equation with the initial and boundary conditions, as well as taking into account the ereditarianism of the process and fractal behavior in the process of switching polarization, we obtain the following initial-sore task for the fraudcture equation in private derivatives: 1 T ∂σp ∂τσ = Δ (x ∗) 2 ∂ 2 ∂ 2 ∂ θp ∂χθ - 1 ₽ (αp +βp 3 +γp 5 —e), (2) p (χ, τ = 0) = 0, p (χ = 0, τ) = ps, p (χ = 1, τ ) = PS, where P is spontaneous polarization, CL/m2; σ, θ - orders of fractional differentiation according to time and coordinate, χ = xx ∗ - dimensionless distance, x ∗ - characteristic scale of the distance, m, 0 ≤ x ≤ l; δ - diffusion coefficient, m2/s; perf - phenomenological parameter, in · m · s/CL; α = α0 (t –TC), α0, β, γ - thermodynamic permanent, a, n · m2/CL2; b, n · m6/KL4; C, N · M10/KL6; TC - the temperature of Curie - Weiss, K; E = EMAX SIN (ωt) - tension of L.I. Moroz, A.G. Maslovskaya 123 of the external field, changing according to periodic law, in/m; PS - spontaneous polarization, CL/m2. Computational scheme. In general, a multidimensional equation with others