Joint dynamics of gas bubbles in a liquid in an acoustic field with centers on the same plane of A.I. Davletshin1 1 anas.davletshin@gmail.com; The Institute of Mechanics and Engineering of the FIC Kazan Scientific Center of the Russian Academy of Sciences provides the results of calculations of the joint dynamics of low -fertile gas (air) bubbles in the liquid (water) in the acoustic field in a three -dimensional setting of the task. Flat configurations of the mutual arrangement of bubbles are considered, when one of the bubbles is in the center of the circle, while the others are located on its Granz at an equal distance from the neighboring ones. The dynamics of bubbles is described by the system of ordinary differential equations relative to the radii of bubbles, the radius vertors of their centers, vectors characterizing a small deviation of the surface of the bubbles from spherical, itempeatures inside the bubbles. The effects of viscosity and compressibility, surface tension between bubbles and liquid are taken into account. Keywords: hydrodynamic interaction of bubbles, acoustic field, deformation of bubbles as interposing distances decrease, an important role in the dynamics of steam -gas bubbles in the liquid begins to play their hydrodynamic interaction [1]. It is especially manifested in acoustic fields, where the pressure of the liquid is alternating, as a result of which the bubbles experience strong radial extensions and compression. The result of interaction may be a weakening or increased radial vibrations of bubbles, their spatial movement, deformation of their surfaces, etc. In this work, the joint dynamics of gas bubbles located in the fluid in the guns of intense ultrasonic standing wave with pressure pinger are studied, changing according to the harmonic law Pinger = P0 —PA sin (ωt), where P0 is static pressure, PA, ω - amplitude and The frequency of oscillations, t is the time. Such configurations of the mutual arrangement of bubbles of Fig. 1. The consistent configurations of the mutual location of the bubbles on one plane 68 “Lobachev readings - 2019” (Fig. 1), in which at the beginning of the interaction (at t = 0) one of the bubbles (central) is located in the center of the circle, and the others (laterals (side) ) are located on its border at an equal distance from the neighboring ones. The number of bubbles k varies from 3 to 7. Initially, all spherical bubbles, with the same radii RK = 3 μm (k = 1.2,., K). The initial distance between the centers of the side and central bubbles D0 = 300 microns. Bubbles are filled with air, and water is water under room conditions. The input parameters of the task are as follows: the temperature of the liquid t0 = 293.15 k, the sound speed in the liquid C0 = 1500 m/s, the density of the liquid ρ0 = 998 kg/m3, the static fluid pressure p0 = 1 bar, the surface tension coefficient σ = 0.0725 N/m, The dynamic fluid viscosity coefficient µ = 10-3 kg/(m s), the gas adiabata indicator κ = 1.4, the heat conductivity coefficient å0 = 0.0258 W/(m K), the specific heat capacity of the gas with a constant volume cv = 720 J/(kg to ), the amplitude of the fluctuations in the wave in the wave PA = 1.13 bar, the frequency of fluctuations in the wave ω/2π = 20 kHz. The mathematical model uses a mathematical model, in which the equation of the surface of the k-th bubble is represented as a row fk (rk, θk, С, t) = rk —rk (t)-n∑ n = 2 an k (t) yn (θk, ∗ 0, where rk, θk, ∗ is a spherical coordinate system with the beginning of the reference in the center of this bubble; Yn (θk, ∗) = (y −n n k, y −n+1 n k,., Y n - 1 n k, y n n k), y m n k = p | n (cosθk) ei m accord - sphere function ; P | m | n - annexed by Polin Lyandra degree n order | m |; I - imaginary unit; an k = (a-n n k + i an n k)/2,., a0 n k,., (a-n k-i an n k)/2), am n K-amplitude of the surface of the surface of the k-th bubble from spherical in the form of superficial harmonics with number n and order m; N is the maximum value of the spherical harmonic number in the view of the surface of the bubbles. Deviations from the spherical shape of the bubbles are characterized by the magnitude of εn k = max θ, ng ∣∣∣∣ n∑ m = −n εmn k y m n k (θ, ng) ∣∣∣∣, where εm n k = am n k /rk. It is assumed that ε 2 n k ≪ 1. Changing the radius of the bubbles RK, the radius vehicles of their centers PK and the vector AN K, which determine the non-pharmacy of the vesicles, during their joint dynamics are described by ordinary differential equations (ode) of the second order obtained in [2] The method of spherical functions in adiabatic approximation. When they are received, it is believed that the bubbles are not very close to each other, but their unsfluction and speed of the spatial displacement are small. Superficial tension is taken into account. The influence of both viscosity and squatiness of fluid is considered small and independent of the interaction between the bubbles. The heat transfer between the bubbles and the fluid is taken into account using the work approach [3], according to which the indicator of the adiabata of gas in bubbles is considered depending on their radius and the speed of its change. As a result, the indicated ode of the second strand [2] supplement