Development of an information system for assessing user communication on the social network P.D. Semenov1, G.Z. Vakhitov2 1 leerck1444@gmail.com; Kazan (Volga) Federal University 2 Gzvahitov@kpfu.ru; Kazan (Volga) Federal University This work is devoted to the analysis of social networks. Nowadays, this is relevant to conduct targeted advertising, recruiting or draw a conclusion on a specific profile. Key words: information system, data analysis, social networks, social networks profiles of social networks are used everywhere and contain a huge array of information in the public domain that can be used for various needs: analysis of consumer preferences, analysis of advertising efficiency, analysis of profiles for the primary assessment of the applicant for A vacant position, a potential borrower of a bank or client of an insurance company, etc. In a number of practical tasks, it is necessary to investigate the degree of similarity of personalities who are users of the social network. For example, forecasting the consumer behavior of one person on the basis of data on consumer behavior of another person or group of users of the social network [2, p.23-25]. The purpose of the work is to develop an application to determine the likeness of profiles of users of the social network. This goal can be achieved by solving the following tasks: 1. Collection of information about users; 2. Development of a module for statistical data processing; 3. Development of a module for analytical data processing. The work was carried out on materials available on the VKontakte network using built -in API VK methods. The application was developed in Java. The basis for collecting statistical data was 316 open profiles of the VKontakte social network. The application was built in Java, collected using Maven. The structure of the application is as follows: there is a REST server built using the Spring library; The server accepts our requests, processes and issues an appropriate answer. There are the following options for processed queries: to extract data 184 “Lobachev readings - 2019” profile from the social network (ID is submitted to the input), conduct a statistical method, conduct an analytical method (1 or 2 ID is submitted, depending on the method). As a database, PostgreSQL is used, this is due to its availability and a wide range of functions. Information is stored in the database, the following operations are provided for each table: get by ID, get everything, add, delete. Each user of the social network has a profile that contains basic information. For many users, the profile is hidden; We are only interested in open profiles. Of greatest interest is the information that allows the user to identify as a consumer of any product, a possible borrower in a bank, an employee for the organization, so the problem of studying his interests, a circle of dating, and others can analyze audio recordings, groups, list of friends etc. The application allows you to extract all friends of the user of the social network studied, as well as a list of groups to which tags and names are attached. Groups are that at least a little passion even those people who spend little time on social networks, they can be judged by the activity of the user on the social network. We analyzed the data in the following areas: 1. Statistics on one profile; 2. Statistical comparison of two profiles; 3. Statistical comparison N profiles; 4. Analytical comparison of two profiles; The first is statistics on one profile. Everything is very simple here - we simply combine all the information on a certain profile that we have, and return it without conducting any transformations [1, c. 214]. Statistics on two profiles are much more interesting. Before conducting this operation, we need to collect statistics according to profiles individually (that is, collect statistics according to one profile). Then, if the criterion is contained in the singular (hometown), then we compare values ​​and determine the likeness (true or false). If we are talking about groups, then the percentage of general groups is taken from the number of unique groups in which both profiles are. The parameters must be folded so that with a maximum, the amount is 100% (or 1.0). To do this, we put a coefficient that determines the significance of similarity to each criterion. For example, the same names are a coincidence, but they slightly affect the semblance of two profiles, so for them the coefficient is 0.02. P.D. Semenov, G.Z. Vakhitov 185 hometown unites people much more - the coefficient is 0.05. And for groups, a very large factor is observed - 0.5. Statistics by n profiles are carried out as follows. Suppose we have n profiles. We take data on the I-oh and I+1 profiles, and then we compare the data obtained with each next profile, and so on to the end. However, there are still small changes - instead of storing single information in Bulevsky variables, we would