“Lobachev readings - 2019” The result: In addition to the main function (reduce the influence of random connections), this method also allows you to calculate the profiles of the same person. Unfortunately, this method is difficult to calculate the so -called bots, since they often fit completely random data, but our development is not designed to solve this problem. Literature 1. Gusarova N.F. Analysis of social networks. Basic concepts and metrics. - St. Petersburg: ITMO University, 2016. - 67 p. 2. Ermolova N. M .: Alpina Plisher, 2013. 357 p. Promotion of business on social networks Facebook, Twitter, Google - St. Petersburg: ITMO University, 2016. - 67 p. 3. Verchenov L.N., Efremenko D.V., Tishchenko V.I. Social networks and virtual network communities - M: INION RAS, 2013. 360 p. Development of an Information System for Evaluating User Connection in Social Network P.D. Semyonov, G.Z. VAKHITOV THIS Work is devered to the Analysis of Social Networks. Nowadays, it is Relevant to Conduct Targeted Advertising, Recruiting Or Make A Conclusion on A Specific Profile. Keywords: Information System, Data Analysis, Social Networks, Profiles of Social Networks UDC 531/534 Description of the behavior of a continuous environment, taking into account the structural properties of E.V. Semenova1, D.A. Mukhin2 1 Elena.Semionova2011@rambler.ru; Kazan (Volga) Federal University 2 Dimonchik.2342@yandex.ru; Kazan (Volga) Federal University in the work considers the method of describing the behavior of solid media, taking into account structural features. As an example, computed tomography of the diaphysis of the femur of the rat is considered. Keywords: a tensor of structure, trabecular (spongy) bone fabric, an ellipsoid structure at present there are many materials that have complex internal architecture and are of interest to research. For a quantitative description of the structure of such materials, the structure of the structure is used, this is a positively defined tensor of the second rank, which allows you to take into account the features of the material [1, 2]. To build a tensor, the structure found the application of the average distance (MSR) between the pores [2-4]. To use it, two methods of processing data obtained using CT: threshold binarization of E.V. were implemented in the work. Semenova, D.A. Mukhin 187 and binarization with a linear site. In the first case, the threshold of binarization, which separates two conventional media, is selected from the analysis of the histogram of the sample by the OCU method. This algorithm allows you to distinguish from the entire array the so -called “useful” and “background” values, which in the binary of the massif correspond to the values ​​of “1” and “0”. In the second case, the binarization threshold is an interval determined by the defined parameter and linearly connecting “0” and “1”. Elements from this interval correspond to the area of ​​bone tissue, where the pores are small and the resolution of the tomograph does not allow them to identify, but their concentration significantly changes the properties of the material. The MSR method allows you to get a cloud of points that describes the distribution of one environment in another. In the work, the regulatory method was implemented, which allows to adjust the MSR distribution. Its use is mainly due to two factors: the characteristics of the tomograph (its resolution and settings) and sensitivity to the choice of the threshold of binarization. In the work as the initial data, computed tomography of the diaphysis of the femoral bone was considered. Using the considered methodology, the structure of the sample was described. The data obtained is a vector field of own vectors. Similarly, vector fields were found for the case of binarization with the threshold and for the use of regulatory for the latter. The data obtained allow assessment of the axes of orthropia for the studied sample. And also evaluating the field of own values, you can get information about areas corresponding to greater stiffness. For this type of data set, standard statistical methods can be applied, for example, the singular decomposition of the correlation matrix or other factor methods. Literature 1. Shertzer R. H. Fabric Tensors and Effective Properties of Granular Materials with Application to Snow. - Montana State University, -2011. - PP. 24-29. 2. Souzanchi M. F., Palacio-Mancheno P. E., Borisov yu. A., Cardoso L., Cowin S.Microarchitecture and Bone Quality in theHumanCalcaneus: Local Variations of Fabric Anisotropy // Journal of bone and mineral research: the official journal of the American Society for Bone and Mineral Research. - 2012. –pp. 2562-2572. 3. KICHENKO A.A., Tvery V. M, Nyashin Yu. I. The experimental definition of the tensor of the structure of trabecular bone tissue // Russian Biomechanics Journal. –2011. - T. 15. – No. 4. –C. 78–93. 1987. - 430 c. 4. Furman Ya. A., Yuryev A.N., Yanshin V.V. Digital methods of processing and recognizing binary images. -Krasnoyarsk: Publishing House of Krasnoyar. University, 1992. –248 p. Description of the Behavior of the Continous Media Taking Into Account of Structural Properties E.V. Semenova, D.A. Mukhin the Paper Describes a Method for