Methodology for calculating the dynamics of fluid and its cavitation in the cylinder when hit at its upper end A.A. Aganin1, I.N. Mustafin2 1 Aganin@kfti.knc.ru; Institute of Mechanics and Engineering of the FIC Kazan Scientific Center of the Russian Academy of Sciences 2 Mustafin@imm.knc.ru; The Institute of Mechanics and Engineering of the FIC Kazan Scientific Center of the Russian Academy of Sciences has developed a methodology for calculating the dynamics of fluid and its cavitation in the cylinder when impacting its upper end. Cavitation at the bottom is modeled by a single cavitation cavity in the form of a cylindrical layer between the bottom and the fluid column, which occurs when the pressure drops below the pressure of the saturated steam. The movement of the liquid is described by the equations of gas dynamics in mixed eilers lamb coordinates associated with the boundaries of the fluid column. The solution is numerically by S.K. Godunov. To illustrate the effectiveness of the methodology, the dynamics of fluid in certain experiments on the destruction of the bottle is calculated. The satisfactory coordination of the results of calculations with experimental data is shown. Keywords: cavitation in the fluid column, cavalization cavity, collapse of the cavity, hydraulic water, equations of gas dynamics, Godunov’s method, Sal coordinates the phenomenon of fluid cavitation (the formation of cavitation bubbles) in the vicinity of the wall of the container that occurs when it impacts its opposite side has enough wide use. In particular, a similar situation can occur when hitting the upper end of the bottle with a liquid [1], when exposed to the shock wave on the head of a person with a charge explosion [2], etc. The subsequent slaughter of the cavitation bubbles formed in these examples can lead to the destruction of the bottle, damage to the brain. These and other similar examples are of important practical significance. This work is devoted to the creation of a methodology for calculating the dynamics of fluid and its cavitation in a cylindrical capacity when hit at the upper end. To illustrate its effectiveness, the results of calculations of the task of destroying the bottle in experiments are given [1]. The main provisions of the methodology of the methodology of this work are designed to calculate the dynamics of fluid and cavitation in the cylinder when impact at its upper end. As a result of the accelerated movement of the cylinder due to the impact, cavitation bubbles occur in the vicinity of its bottom (Fig. 1 A). Over time, they expand, merge and form a relatively homogeneous area. In fact, the fluid column is separated from the cylinder bottom. Then the bubbles in the vicinity of the bottoms are collapsed, which leads to the hydraulic boom along the bottom, as a result of which the container may collapse. In the proposed calculation methodology, many emerging bubbles in the vicinity of the bottom are modeled by a single cavitation cavity (Fig. 1 b). It is believed that this cavity is formed when the pressure falls in the liquid to level 10 “Lobachev readings - 2019” Fig. 1. Cavitation of the liquid in the container when impact along its upper end (a) and the diagram used in the model (b). the pressure of the saturated steam in the form of a thin layer along the entire cross section of the fluid column. The pressure in the cavity is considered equal to the pressure of a saturated steam. With this assumption, the dynamics of the cavitation cavity is determined by the movement of the bottom and lower boundary of the fluid column. Due to the symmetry of the container, the task is considered spatially one -dimensional, with the parameters of the liquid (pressure P, the density ρ, etc.), depending on the axial coordinate X. Due to the mobility of the upper and lower boundaries of the fluid column, it is convenient to use mixed eilers-laorder (SL) coordinates ctor and τ, in which the position of these boundaries remains constant. Alerovs and Sal variables are interconnected by the transformation of x = x (₽, τ), t = τ, where t is time. The equations of the gas dynamics in the SAL coordinates are recorded as follows: ∂ρxă ∂τ +∂ρ (v --w) ∂ă = 0, ∂ρv xă ∂τ +∂ (ρv (v --w) +p) ∂ă = 0, ∂ρExovern ∂τ+∂ (ρe (v −w)+pv) ∂ă = 0. (1) here V is the speed along the axis x, e = ε+v2/2 - complete energy of the mass of the mass, ε - the internal energy of the unit Masses, x pur = ∂x/∂ă. The speed of the movable mesh w = ∂x/∂τ on the boundaries of the fluid column is equal to the speed of their movement, and inside the pillar is determined using linear interpolation using boundary values. The system of equations of the dynamics of fluid (1) is closed by the equation of the state of the “hard” gas [3] p = (γ−1) ρε-γb, (2) where γ and b are constants. The following boundary and initial conditions are accepted. On the upper boundary of the fluid column, the pressure is considered equal to the pressure of the environment P0. At its lower border, first until the occurrence of the cavitation cavity A.A. Aganin, I.N. Mustafin 11 relies that the speed of this border is equal to the speed of the bottom. Then, after the cavitation cavity occurs, when the lower boundary becomes a free surface, it is accepted that the pressure on it is the pressure of the saturated pair PV. Before the blow, the liquid is motionless with pressure P0. The solution of equations (1), (2) is numerically by S.K. Godunov [4]. Illustration of application Assessment of the effectiveness of the proposed numerical method