"Lobachev Readings - 2019" UDC 372.8 Fast start to computer modeling for future mathematics teachers E.V. Vepernetskaya1, E.A. Kormushkina2, G.N. Mukhametzyanova3, E.V. Chebotareva4 1 abigail13@yandex.ru; Kazan (Volga) Federal University, Institute of Mathematics and Mechanics. N.I. Lobachevsky 2 kormushkina.katya@mail.ru; Kazan (Volga) Federal University, Institute of Mathematics and Mechanics. N.I. Lobachevsky 3 gmuxametzyanova@list.ru; Kazan (Volga) Federal University, Institute of Mathematics and Mechanics. N.I. Lobachevsky 4 Elvchb@mail.ru; Kazan (Volga) Federal University, Institute of Mathematics and Mechanics. N.I. Lobachevsky in the article describes the methodology of conducting an express practitioner developed by the authors aimed at the formation of skills in future mathematics for the use of various computer modeling tools adapted for use in the educational process. Key words: mathematical education, mathematical modeling, computer modeling, express practitioners, computer modeling, the role of computer modeling in mathematical education is not limited only to the use of computer models as visual materials that demonstrate the properties of the studied objects and phenomena. Computer modeling is an effective means of implementing the applied orientation of various academic disciplines [1, 2, 3, 4]. The integration of computer modeling into mathematical education allows us to strengthen the interdisciplinary and applied aspects of the educational process. However, in practice, there are a number of common problems that prevent the advantages of this approach. One of these problems is an acute shortage of educational time to study computer modeling tools. As a rule, professional computer mathematics systems have a specific interface and require an additional study of the programming language inherent in a particular system. Therefore, when introducing a specific system of computer mathematics into the educational process, it is necessary to pay special attention to the study of the basics of work with such systems. The lack of skills in working with a computer mathematics system as a computer modeling tool makes it impossible to build a conscious construction of educational computer models. Thus, the study of professional computer mathematics used in modeling requires students to significant time. Another problem, even with a sufficient number of educational time to study the system of computer mathematics, is the problem of excessive E.V. Vependskaya, E.A. Kormushkina, G.N. Mukhametzyanova, E.V. Chebotareva 47 hobbies by using information technology in the study of mathematical disciplines [5]. In this case, the purpose of solving problems for building computer models is to study the computer modeling tools themselves. At the same time, the applied orientation in the study of mathematical disciplines and the interdisciplinary approach are not fully realized. In this work, to solve these problems, it is proposed to conduct an express practitioner for computer modeling, which allows to quickly form the skills necessary for building educational computer models. The workshop is intended for undergraduate students - future mathematics teachers students in the direction of “Pedagogical Education”. Also, the workshop can be used in the preparation of students in grades 10-11 for project activities. For the effective use of computer modeling as a tool that implements an applied focus and an interdisciplinary approach in mathematical education, it is necessary that software for developing educational computer models satisfy a number of functional and non -functional requirements. Functional requirements are determined, first of all, by a mathematical apparatus used by students to solve applied tasks requiring the construction and study of mathematical models. The minimum functionality of educational software should include a clear and parametric task of the function of one variable, calculating the values ​​of the function at the point, solution of equations and systems of equations, calculating the derivative of the function, calculating certain and indefinite integrals, solving the simplest ordinary differential equations. The functional requirements related to the graphic representation of modeling objects also include the possibility of constructing geometric objects, building the functions of one variable, visualization of the dynamics of graphic objects according to a given law of movement, the possibility of export of constructed models to popular graphic formats. Among the non -functional requirements for such software, the most important role is played by: the convenience and ease of use for students, an intuitive interface, does not