Lobachevsky Readings - 2019 "The Application of these Method Allowed Us to Prove The Existence of a Unique Solution to the Problem. Keywords: Nonlocal Problem, Integral Conditions, Hyperbolic Equation UDC 517.9 On the task of a conductor on two -dimensional network L.A. Kovaleva1 1 kova1eva1ida@yandex.ru; The Belgorod State National Research University, the Institute of Engineering and Digital Technologies The article considers the task of the conductor for harmonic functions on a two -dimensional network (complex), consisting of flat convex polygons. The resolution of the task in the spaces of Helder with weight was proved, the value of the index in the corresponding spaces was found. The degree-logarithmic asymptotic solutions near the vertices of the complex was obtained. Keywords: the task of the conductor, the problem of the problem, the space of the gelder, the asymptotic solutions, the two -dimensional network in the spacer3 will consider the final set of the flat convex polygons m, which can intersect only on their sides. The set of segments L, which are the sides of one or more polygons, denote L, and many of their ends - F. The combination of polygons M ∈M, considered as closed subset R3, is called a two -dimensional complex, and a network, if in addition, each segment L ∈ L can serve as a border of not more than two polygons. In relation to K, the elements m ∈M are called the faces, and the elements L ∈L are sides or ribs, depending on whether L is included in the border of one or more faces. It is convenient to connect with each element l ∈L to connect the totality of the ML of all the faces bordering L. Let the subset of K 1 ⊆R3 mean the combination of all segments L ∈L taken without its ends, so that the closed set F ∪K 1 is a broken in R3 . Similarly, by K 2 we should understand the combination of all faces taken without its border. The set of all ribs is divided into two pairs of pair of non -overeating subset LD and LH, the first of which consists of a certain subset of the parties. The corresponding units of these ribs, taken without their ends, are denoted by K 1D and K 1 h. Similarly, let the FD consists of points that are the ends of the segments l ∈LD. Then FH = F \ FD consists of points τ, for which all segments l ∈L with this end belong to LH. Following [1], the function u (x) ∈ C (k \ f) will call harmonic on the set K 2∪k 1h, if it is harmonious inside each face, continuously differentiated up to the internal points of the segment L and the sum of normal derivatives ∂ U ∂νm, L.A. Kovaleva 99 taken from the inside M is zero: ∑ morn ∂u ∂u ∂νm ∣∣∣ l = 0. The task of the conductor (task D) is to find harmonic on k 2∪k 1h function u ∈ C (k \ f) The regional condition u ∣∣ k 1d = f, (1) where the right part f ∈ C (K 1D) is set. This task was studied in detail in [1] in the family of weight gelder's about the strangers Cµ λ (K, F) on an arbitrary two -dimensional complex. The case of a two -dimensional network considered in this paper allows you to somewhat supplement the results of this work. Recall the definition of the space cµ λ (k, f), 0 <µ <1, with the weight order λ ∈ R. Based on the weight function ρλ (z) = ∏ τ∈F | x –τ | λ of this order, the space cµ λ (k; f) is defined as a class of all functions pover ∈C (k \ f, for which the function is ψ = ρµ - forefathers belongs to the Helder class Cµ (K) and is turned to zero at points τ ∈ F. in particular, the function mon (x) behaves as O (| x - τ | λτ) for x τ. Related to the norm | onic | ψ | C of the space of banakhovo and with an increase in λ family (cµ λ) monotonously decreases according to the investment , so that the classes can be introduced C µ λ - 0 = ∩ε> 0c µ λ --ε, C µ λ+0 = ∪ε> 0c µ λ+ε. Note that the work ∗ψ two functions ∗ ∈ Cµ λ+0 and ψ ∈ C µ ν - 0 "belongs to C µ λ+ν+0. With λ = 0, these classes are briefly denote C µ ± 0. Obviously, the functions ∈ C µ −0 allow the features of the arbitrarily small order (i.e. the logarithmic Type), and each function onic ∈Cµ+0 belongs to C µ ε with some small ε> 0. It is convenient in addition to introduce the final expansion of Cµ (+0) of the last class by adding smooth functions that are constant in the vicinity of points τ ∈ F. A similar meaning have classes Cµ ± 0 (K 1 D, FD) and C µ (+0) (K 1 D, FF ) on K 1 d. It is clear that the suction of the function u ∈ Cµ λ (K, f) on K 1D belongs C µ λ (K 1D, FD), so we can talk about the Fredgolmoziness of the task (1) for functions that are harmonic on K 2H. More accurately, by definition, this task offredgolmov in the space is Cµ λ, if a homogeneous task (C F = 0) in this class has a final number of linearly independent solutions U1 ,. . . , UN and there are such linearly independent functions G1 ,. . . , gm ∈Cµ --λ -1–0 (k 1 d, fd) that the conditions of orthogonality∫ k 1d f (y) gk (y) d1y = 0, 1 ≤ k ≤ m, (2) are necessary and sufficient for resolving heterogeneous task (1) in this class [2]. Note that the work of F GK under the sign of the integral belongs to the class Cµ - 1+0, so the integral makes sense. 100 “Lobachev Readings - 2019” The difference  = n - M is called the task index. Endless spaces stretched over function