“Lobachev readings - 2019” ⋂ pchen ê ∑ ∑ p etrap = ⋂ p ma ∑ p], respectively. Literature 1. A. Mader. Almost Completly Decomposable Abelian Groups, Algebra, Logic and Applications, Vol.13, Amsterdam, 1999. - 355 c. 2. E. Blagoveshchenskaya. Almost completely decomposed Abelian groups and their rings of endomorphisms, mathematics at the Polytechnic University, St. Petersburg, 2009.-215 c. Dual Connections Between Torsion-Free Abelian Groups and Their Endomorphism rings e.A. Blagoveshchenskaya a dual approach to almost Completly Decomposable Abelian Groups and Their Endomorphism rings is established. It is used for Direct Decomposition Investigation for Finite Rank Groups of a Given Class, and it is Also Generalized to Certain Classes of Abelian Groups of Infinite Ranks. Keywords: Torsion-Free Abelian Groups, Endomorphism Rings UDC 531/534 Methods for optimizing the geometry of the design of P.V. Bolshakov1 1 bolshakov-pavel@inbox.ru; Department of Theoretical Mechanics of the Institute of Mathematics and Mechanics N.I. Lobachevsky Kazan (Volga) Federal University in the work proposed and implemented algorithms of topological and structural optimization of the structure. The functional dependences of the basic porous element and effective mechanical properties were obtained. Examples of design optimization are given. Key words: topological optimization, structural optimization, additive technologies at present with the development of additive technologies in design tasks have found the spread of the task of topological optimization. Methods of optimal finding parameters describing the geometry and structure of the structure, but at the same time satisfying the strength and technological properties can reduce the dimensions and weight of the product [3-4]. One of the areas of studies is the studies of porous-steps, such geometry is winning in its mass properties, and with the correct design, it can withstand heavy loads. Mathematically, the task can be formulated as: it is necessary to find such a distribution of the tensor of elastic properties E in volume V, that the voltage invariant (in our case, the intensity of the stress in myise) reaches a minimum under constant boundary conditions. P.V. Bolshakov 37 of the constructive conditions must be additionally determined under the area V, in which the components of the tensor of elastic properties remain unchanged. An approach to generalization of the basic element and evaluate its mechanical properties is proposed [1]. For this purpose, it is necessary to determine many parameters that determine the basic element. Next, numerical experiments are conducted and control functions are determined [2]. Subsequent optimization of the structure is implemented on the basis of the method of finite elements. From the assumption of the presence of a mechanical symmetry of the basic element, an orthotropic hypothesis can be used. The iteration process of optimizing the structure is formulated, within the framework of which the hypothesis of the alignment of the tensor of stresses and axes of the orthotropy of the basic element is used. Separately, it is worth noting the reconstruction of the received geometry, which allows you to receive ready -made files for production and subsequent processing in a semi -automatic mode. The proposed approach was implemented for a porous basic element with a pronounced ellipticity in one direction. The approach to optimization is based on the iteration process, where at each step the intensity of the voltages, the main stresses and their directions is carried out. In the future, the axis of the orthotropy of the element are oriented in the main directions. After that, the dimensionless parameters of the element are determined. After finding the parameters responsible for the size of the pore and its ellipticity, effective mechanical characteristics are determined for each element and this iteration process passes to the next step, where the problem of a stress-deformed state (VAT) is solved. To test the methodology, the design and type of loading was chosen, a mathematical setting of the problem was formulated. In view of the fact that the mechanical characteristics of this material depend on the quality of manufacture and consumables, in the calculations, both minimal and maximum possible characteristics of the material were taken into account. An arch was chosen as a calculated model. The calculation and optimization of the structure was implemented on the basis of the method of final elements. For sampling the volume, an eight nodal element with linear approximation was used. As a boundary conditions, a rigid seal was adopted on the left edge of the arch, and a sliding support on the right. The load was applied in the form of pressure p = 10mpa. The maximum stresses in the mizes after optimization decreased by 310 percent relative to the initial structure. Calculations showed a quick convergence of the method and resistance to variation of the mechanical properties of the structure. It is worth noting that the difference in maximum stresses with structural optimization for minimal and maximum possible mechanical properties was insignificant (