. Theorem Bonnet and Surface of Revolution of Constant Mean Curvature M.A. Cheshkova Using the Bonnet Theorem, Surfaces of Constant Mean Curvature Are Constructed for the Surface of Revolut Positant Gaussian Curvature. Surfaces of Constant Mean Curvature Are Described Using Elliptic Integrals. Keywords: Surfaces of Revolution, Mean Curvature, Elliptic Integrals UDC 004.8 Formation of a training sample for analyzing the user of social network DR Shagheev1, G.Z. Vakhitov2, Z.A. Enikeev3 1 drshageeva@gmail.com; Kazan (Volga) Federal University, Institute of Computing Mathematics and Information Technologies 2 Gzvahitov@kpfu.ru; Kazan (Volga) Federal University, Institute of Computing Mathematics and Information Technologies 3 Zaenikeeva@kpfu.ru; Kazan (Volga) Federal University, the Institute of Computing Mathematics and Information Technologies The article discusses the formation of training samples for the neural networks analyzing profiles of social network users. The main task of our neural network modeling is to divide students into classes that characterize their academic success. During the study of statistical data, 214 “Lobachev readings - 2019” revealed that the average score for academic performance depends on the direction and form of training, the student’s gender. Therefore, to teach the classifier it was decided to use the neural network ensemble, taking into account the differences in the input aggregates of the data. Key words: a training sample, data analysis, social networks for the formation of a sample took data from students of the Kazan Volga Federal University (hereinafter - K (P) Fu). As a parameter determining performance, the student’s average score was chosen. To ensure the representativeness of the sample, students were chosen students in both technical and humanitarian directions. So, from students received in 2016-2018, 10,000 students were allocated. As the social network under consideration, VKontakte was chosen. By surname, name, patronymic search was carried out by classmates in friends of this student. IDs were also obtained on the social network VKontakte. About 11 percent of students were not found on a social network, about 16 percent of students had closed profiles, which led to their exclusion from the list. In the final list, 7317 students remain. Using the API methods provided to VKontakte, quantitative data on students (the number of friends, followers, photos, videos, interesting pages, audio recordings, gifts, records on the wall) were obtained. Since even with an open user profile of the selected social network of audio recordings, gifts, records on the wall can be hidden, these parameters were excluded from the list. As a result, a database with the following attributes was formed: gender, institute, form of training (budget/contract/government), average performance score, the number of friends on the social network, the number of subscribers on the social network, the number of photographs published on the social network, the number of published in the social network. Social network video, number of pages to which the user is signed. The next step was the study of dependencies between the variables. From the floor of the floor dependence on the average point (Figure 1) it follows that female students have a higher average score than male students. On the schedule of the institute’s dependence on the average score (Figure 2) it is clear that the average performance score varies depending on the institute. From the grafting of the dependence of the form of training on the average point (Figure 3), it can be concluded that the average score of students studying in the contract form of learning is slightly lower than the average score of students studying on the budget form of training and students in the state line. To improve the convergence of neural networks, we propose to consider weights as random values, and correlate their changes taking into account the values ​​of the above factors described. Thus, the changes in the scales depend on the choice of a certain neural network from the ensemble, and for each network, weights are considered as random values ​​for which the laws of the distribution of their values ​​are built: DR Shagheeva, G.Z. Vakhitov, Z.A. Enikeev 215 1 2 3 .0 3 .5 4 .0 4 .5 5 .0 Fig. 1. The dependence of the floor on the average score is 10 12 14 16 18 20 3 .0 3 .5 4 .0 4 .5 5 .0 Fig. 2. The dependence of the institute on the average score wi j = fi j (t | n∑ k iry yk), here [fi j] - functions depending on the number of the chosen neural network, also on the influence of the totality of the studied factors [Y1, ..., ..., Yn], the indicator [IK] shows the presence or absence of the influence of the [YK] for this array of input data. 216 “Lobachev readings - 2019” 1 2 3 3 .0 3 .5 4 .0 4 .5 5 .0 Fig. 3. Dependence of the form of training on the average score literature 1. Popov L. M, Ustin P. N) PSYCHOLOGICAL Alienation Problem in Moral and Ethical Psychology of Personality. Math