The Bernoulli Distribution Parameter Estimates with Prior Beta R.F. Salimov in the Article for the Bernoulli Distribution Parameter Bayesian Estimate and Estimate with Unified Minimal D-Risk Are Constructic Loss Function With Partha Dista Dista Dista Dista Dista Dista Dista Dista Dista Dista Dista Dista Dista Dista Dista Dista Dista Dista Dista Dista Dista Dista Dista Dista Dista Dista Dista Dista Dista Dista Dista Dista Dista Dista Dista Dista Dista Dista Dista Dista Dista Dista Dista Dista Dista Dista Diror Distales Diror Distales Distales Dista Party. The d-risks of these estimate are Found and the Tasks of Planning of the Tests Volume Are Solved. Keywords: Bernoulli distribution parameter estimate, Bayesian estimate, estimate with uniformly minimal d-risk, quadratic loss function, prior beta distribution, necessary sample size  УДК 519.62  ИССЛЕДОВАНИЕ ПРЕДЕЛЬНЫХ СВОЙСТВ РЕШЕНИЙ ЗАДАЧИ О СОБСТВЕННЫХ КОЛЕБАНИЯХ СТЕРЖНЯ С ГРУЗОМ  А.А. Samsonov1, S.I. Solovyov2, D.M. Korosteleva3 1 anton.samsonov.kpfu@mail.ru; Kazan (Volga) Federal University 2 Sergei.Solovyev@kpfu.ru; Kazan (Volga) Federal University 3 Diana.korosteleva.kpfu@mail.ru; Kazan State Energy University is studied by an ordinary differential task for second -order own values, simulating its own vibrations of an elastic rod with a load attached to the end. The task has an increasing sequence of positive simple values ​​with the maximum point at infinity. The sequence of own values ​​corresponds to a complete orthonomated system of own functions. The work examines the behavior of solutions depending on the size of the mass of the connected cargo. The initial differential task for its own values ​​is approximated by the mesh diagram of the finite elements of arbitrary order on a uniform grid. Estimates of the errors of approximate own values ​​and own functions are established, depending on the step of the grid. The results of the work can be generalized for cases of more complex and important applied tasks of calculating the own fluctuations in the beams, plates and shells from 174 “Lobachev readings - 2019” attached cargo. Keywords: own oscillation of the rod, own meaning, own function, task for own values, grid approximation, the method of finite elements we formulate the differential task to our own meanings, describing the longitudinal own vibrations of the cargo system. Similar tasks can be found in [1, 2, 3]. Suppose that the axis of the elastic rod occupies at rest a segment [0, l] the axis Ox. Small longitudinal vibrations of the rod are studied in the assumption that the transverse sections of the rod during the displacement remain flat and orthonal axes OX. We denote the volumetric density through ρ (x) through E (x) - the Yunga elasticity module, through s (x) - the cross -sectional area of ​​the rod. Suppose that the end of the rod with the coordinate x = 0 is fixed, the load of mass M is attached to the end of X = L. Then the longitudinal displacements of W (X, T) of the rod sections with coordinate X at the time of time T are satisfied with the following equations ∂ ∂x (p (x) ∂x w (x, t)) = R (x) ∂ 2 ∂t 2 w ( x, t), x ∈ (0, l), t> 0, (1) W (0, t) = 0, t> 0, (2) −p (l) ∂x w (l, t) = M ∂ 2 ∂t 2 w (l, t), t> 0, (3) where p (x) = e (x) s (x), r (x) = ρ (x) s (x), x ∈ [0, L]. The own vibrations of the system of the rod - load are determined by the function W (x, t) of the following type: W (x, t) = u (x) v (t), x ∈ [0, l], t> 0, where v (t) = a0 cos p λ t + b0 sin p λ t, t> 0; A0, B0 and λ are constant values. Then equations (1) - (3) drive to the differential task to its own values ​​of the second order: find the numbers λ and non -zero functions u (x), x ∈ [0, l], such that - (p (x) u ′ (x)) ′ = λr (x) u (x), x ∈ (0, l), (4) u (0) = 0, p (l) u ′ (l) = λm u (l). (5) The task (4), (5) has an increasing sequence of positive simple values ​​with the maximum point at infinity. The sequence of own values ​​corresponds to a complete orthonomated system of own functions. The work explores the limit properties at M → ∞ and at M → 0 Own values ​​and own functions of the parametric task (4), (5) with parameter m. The initial differential task for its own values ​​is approximated by the mesh diagram of the finite elements method on a uniform grid with the final elements of arbitrary order. Estimates of the errors of approximate own values ​​and own functions are established, depending on the step of the grid. Tasks for own values ​​with the parameter are used to research and solve nonlinear problems for their own meanings. Tasks for its own values ​​with a nonlinear entry of the spectral parameter arise, for example, in plasma physics [1, 2, 3, 4], in structural mechanics [5, 6, 7, 8, 9], when constructing computational methods for solving mepscheated equations [10 , 11, 12]. Numerical A.A. Samsonov, S.I. Solovyov, D.M. Korosteleva 175 Methods of solving nonlinear self -strengthened matrix problems for their own meanings were studied in work [13, 14]. The method of final differences for solving ordinary differential tasks for its own values ​​with linear and nonlinear dependence on the spectral parameter was studied in