«ЛОБАЧЕВСКИЕ ЧТЕНИЯ - 2019»  or bypass GPS services while trying to identity the probable places where a given picture has been taken. To solve this problem, we used a special type of architecture of neural networks called Convolutional Neural Networks. To train our network, it was necessary first of all to write a python script that helped to automatically download images from Google with the given keywords because we couldn’t find any ready dataset, we had to create our own. After the data collection, cleaning and processing, the data were still not enough and then we had to apply the data-augmentation technique. After the dataaugmentation, the data increased and we could then train our network. We made two convolutional neural network models and we established a voting classifier: this made and helped us to obtain great results. For future references, in order to get a more general and better performing network for recognizing more places, we will need to collect more data and train the network with very fined-tuned parameters and look for an effective way to use the models that we would get.  References  1. Chollet, F., Deep Learning with Python / F. Chollet. — Manning Shelter Island, 2018. — 362p  2. Cornelisse D. - Apr 24: An intuitive guide to Convolutional Neural Networks 2018  3. Abdellatif Abdelfattah - 2017, Jul 28: Image Classification using Deep Neural Network – A beginner friendly approach using TensorFlow  UDC 004.85  SEEGAAI : DEEP REINFORCEMENT LEARNING IN SEEGA C.C. Emezue1, F.P.B. Dossou2  1 chris.emezue@gmail.com; Kazan Federal University 2 femipancrace.dossou@gmail.com; Kazan Federal University  This research paper introduces SeegaAI, a research project to develop a powerful artificial intelligence bot for the game of Seega using deep reinforcement learning. Researchers have long been working on embedding human-like behavior in computers: a field of research popularly called artificial intelligence (hereafter called AI). With the advent of personal, faster and more efficient computers in our present generation, it has become easy to create powerful AIs that can play (and beat humans) at various games like checkers, backgammon, chess, and Go[1]. As a result, several resources concerning the implementation of AI in these gamesresearch papers, python libraries, game bots online, project codes, etc. – are available and easily accessible online. On the contrary, only few resources from African indigenous games (Ayo, Seega, Abula) can be found because little research has beenmade on them. These games are however unique because they involve a complex combination of strategy, psychology, and quick decision making. For example, playing Seega involves two stages: placing the players and moving the players, which both need strategy to win, unlike chess (which only requires strategy in moving the players as they have a fixed position) and Go (which involves only placing the player). It is for this complex gaming structure of Seega that we chose it for our AI project. We hope to achieve two things with this project: successfully implement deep    C.C. Emezue, F.P.B. Dossou 227  reinforcement learning in Seega and provide research materials for implementing machine learning in African indigenous board games.  Keywords: seega, reinforcement learning, artificial intelligence  Introduction  Seega is a board battle game played in Egypt, Ethiopia and especially in Somalia. It became popular in the 19th century. The aim of the game is to capture as many of the opponent’s pieces as possible. The winner is the player with the most captured pieces. Seega is a game with complete and perfect information[3]. In November 2018, Seega was selected for the annual MIFY Artificial Intelligence contest[2]. This was the first (as far as we know) approach to designing a sophisticated AI for Seega  Previous research done and what makes SeegaAI unique  The contestants designed their AI using various methods: from coding of complex logical decision making processes, minimax, to implementing alpha-beta pruning and other advanced gaming optimization methods. All their AI algorithms had one common feature: the game decisions were hard-coded into the AI (through gaming optimization techniques and perhaps expert knowledge of the game of Seega). SeegaAI explores a different approach: where the AI learns, through trial and error, about the game: the strategy of the game, how to make winning moves. This approach, called Reinforcement learning (hereafter called RL), is akin to the way a child learns to walk in its environment, by trying many times, failing and learning from experience. Over the years, using reinforcement learning to train computers to play games has produced far better results. DeepMind’s AlphaZero, which is considered unbeatable in chess, shogi and Go, taught itself to play these games from scratch through reinforcement learning. AlphaZero beat all the then powerful computer AIs in these games: it beat Elmo in a s