"Lobachev readings - 2019" UDC 004.852 Classification of these social networks by V.A. Cheparin1, Z.A. Enikeev2, G.Z. Vakhitov3 1 cheparin.vladislav@gmail.com; Kazan (Volga) Federal University, Institute of Computing Mathematics and Information Technologies 2 Zaenikeeva@kpfu.ru; Kazan (Volga) Federal University, Institute of Computing Mathematics and Information Technologies 3 Gzvahitov@kpfu.ru; Kazan (Volga) Federal University, the Institute of Computing Mathematics and Information Technologies in the article analyzed algorithms and approaches to the classification of these social networks. Classifiers are applied and their comparison is presented. Directions are indicated for further research. Key words: social networks, classification, machine learning research of social networks and classification of user profiles is a very popular task at the moment. Many users post various information about themselves, thanks to which you can find out the interests of a person, his circle of communication and other fact from his life. In this paper, we suggested that using the student’s profile, you can predict his performance at the university. Our work uses the data of the VKontakte social network, as it is the most popular, especially among the student community, more than 100 million unique visitors per month. The task of dividing users into two classes in performance caused interest in the construction of arbitrary classifiers according to the profile data, followed by the analysis of the resulting classes. It was proposed to build a classifier, in which the Euclidean distance between the points of the metric space is used. The implemented classifier is a simplified version of the Kohonen card, which can be called a degenerate Kohonen card. Below will be a ghostly description of the classifier formation algorithm. For training, only quantitative signs of the profile of the social network were used, which were previously normalized. In the training sample there were about three thousand notes. For training sampling, 80% of the total sample and 20% were used to test the classifier. V.A. Cheparin, Z.A. Enikeev, G.Z. Vakhitov 205 Algorithm 1: Reduced Kokhonen Map Entrance: Number of classes K; X - selection of users Data result: The vector of the weight for each class ωk = (ωk1, ωk2, ..., ωkn), where 0 <k é k 1 for each class we set the vector of the weight randomly ωk = (ωk1, ωk2,. .., ωkn) 2 We set the speed of training λ and its change Δ 0 <λ <1, 0 <δ <λ/2 3 3 until λ> 0 perform 4 for each xm ∈ X find the closest in Euclidean metric ωk 5 We recalculate classes of class ωki = ωki +λ (xm −ωki) 6 Reduce the speed of learning λ = λ -δ 7 End A implemented classifier allowed the profile of a typical representative of the class, the psychometric analysis of which is subject to a deeper study. It is worth noting that the resulting breakdown does not coincide with the division into “successful” and “unsuccessful ones and gives rise to new classes of users. A slightly different result of clustering was obtained when using the K-medium algorithm. In the future, a comparison and generalization of algorithms is assumed in order to search for the optimal number of classes, Characteristic for various groups of users. Literature 1. Non-standard clusterization 4: Self-Organizing Maps, Subtleties, Improvements, Comparison with T-SNE [Electronic resource].-access mode: url: https://habr.com/en/post/ 338868 2. BROTIKOVSKAYA D., Zobnin D. Algoritmk Middle (K -means) [Electronic resource].-Access mode: url: https://algowiki-project.org/ru/algorithm_k_ Middle 2 K -means in Python [Electronic resource].-Access mode: URL: https://datasciencelslab.wordpress.com/2013/12/12/clustering-k-means-in-python of Social Network Data BY Methods of Machine Learning V.A. Cheparin, Z.A. Enikeeva , G.Z. Vahitov This Paper Describes Analyzing The Algorithms and Approaches to the Classification of Social Network’s Data. Classifiers Were Apply and Their Comparison Is Presented. Directions for Further Researches are 206 "Lobachev readings - 2019" Indicated. Keywords: Social Networks, Classical, Machine Learning UDC 517.952 A special case of a linear fraud problem O.V. Chernova1 1 chernova_olga@bsu.edu.ru; The Belgorod State Research University, the Institute of Engineering and Digital Technologies in the article examines a special case of a linear conjugation problem for a common elliptical system with comprehensive coefficients. It is shown that the choice of a successful reversible linear substitution allows you to reduce the overall elliptical system to the equivalent canonical system, while the initial regional condition will be expressed through the elements of some auxiliary matrices. Applying the results of the classical theory of the singular operators and a number of auxiliary statements established Fredgolmov's resolution of the task. KE