Features of the study of geometric constructions in the school course of stereometry m. Sagedieva1, E.R. Sadykova2, O.V. Razumova3 1 sagedievamilyausha@mail.ru; Kazan (Volga) Federal University, Institute of Psychology and Education 2 Sadikova_er@mail.ru; Kazan (Volga) Federal University, Institute of Mathematics and Mechanics named after N.I. Lobachevsky 3 miolga@rambler.ru; The Kazan (Volga) Federal University, the Institute of Mathematics and Mechanics named after N.I. Lobachevsky in the article discusses the methodological features of the study of geometric constructions in space, giving solutions to positional problems and the application of information technologies in teaching solving problems for building. Key words: stereometry, image completeness, positional tasks, information technologies tasks for building, both on the plane and in space, are an important and necessary element of studying the course of mathematics in high school. They contribute to the formation of constructive skills, the development of logical thinking, spatial imagination. But for a significant part of students, such tasks remain difficult. Therefore, there is a need to improve the methodology of studying these issues. An analysis of scientific, educational literature showed that when studying issues related to geometric constructions in space, the following methodological features must be taken into account [3]. In the first lessons in studying the topic, much attention is paid to the projection drawing and its properties, the system of depicting points of space. Students must understand that images of points of space indicating their “bases”, that is, projections on the main plane, have the property of “completeness”. This means that provided that in the drawing the points and their foundations themselves are shown in the drawing, then any “incident” elements of space can be built on such a drawing [2]. Students should make sure that all points of the drawing are “completely set”, that is, the grounds for points are also set. And for this, at the beginning of the work, it is necessary to check the property of completeness on each drawing. For example, when solving the next problem, students are invited to determine the basis of a given point. Task. Dana Plan, determined by points A (A1), B (B1), C (C1), on which point N is marked. For point N, find the base. To solve the problem, students carry out a direct A before it meets with a straight line BC at point P, find the base P1 point P, then on the line A1P1 find the base N1 of the point N (Fig. 1). When solving the problem, students are convinced that any point belonging to a given line or plane is also given. And its base can be built in the drawing. Thus, students form the belief that the use of projections of points on the main plane (“bases” 164 “Lobachev readings - 2019” Fig. 1. Points) is a simple way to solve various tasks for building tel sections. On the figures, for example, a prism, a pyramid, which are obtained by the movement of a straightforward forming parallel to this direction. The latter is selected for the direction of designing a point to the main plane. In other bodies, for example, the pyramid and cone, the former passes through a permanent point - the top of the pyramid or cone. In such tasks, central design of points on the main plane is used, which requires students certain efforts to build images with the central system of “internal” design. When studying positional tasks for building to pass the section on parallel lines, it is recommended to simultaneously perform three actions: to show ways to image points of space; enter the necessary terminologies, such as the main plane designing straight and planes, the main points; Consider the main positional tasks that are basic when working with the positional drawings of the school stereometry course. The solution to the problem on the projection drawing is possible only when it is built according to certain laws of geometry, and students should clearly recognize this. With parallel design, these properties of the drawing are reduced to the following provisions: the projection of a direct line is direct; preservation of incident (a point belonging to a straight line is designed by a point belonging to the projection of a straight line); preservation of the parallelism of straight lines; Preservation of the relationship of segments lying on the direct original and in the projection. Another feature in the study of geometric constructions in space is the methodology for solving problems on the projection drawing [4]. Task. The image of the cube and point ð on its brinks BC B1C1 are given. It is required to lower the perpendicular from the point on the diagonal plane a a1c1c (Fig. 2). To solve the problem, students are proposed: to find the direction of the desired perpendicular; Build points of its intersection with the diagonal plane a a1c1c. Since all perpendicular to the same plane are parallel to each other, on the projection drawing, according to the property of such drawings, they will also be