"Lobachev readings - 2019" UDC 004.42 Features of the system of measuring social skills A.A. Nasrov1, A.V. Dmitterchuk2, Sh.R. Sabitov3 1 aydar999@mail.ru; Kazan (Volga) Federal University, Institute of Computing Mathematics and Information Technologies 2 Great.arthur.foe@gmail.com; Kazan (Volga) Federal University, Institute of Computing Mathematics and Information Technologies 3 Sh.R.Sabitov@gmail.com; Kazan (Volga) Federal University, the Institute of Computing Mathematics and Information Technologies in this article considers the existing and working system for evaluating educational and extracurricular activities of students of the Institute for Computing Mathematics of Iinformation Technologies. Available areas of self -realization were indicated and described, as well as the skills developed with participation in them. The situation that confirmed the advantage of activists over other students is analyzed. Key words: social skills, Soft-Skills, information system Student life consists of educational and extracurricular activities. Participation in cultural festivals and sports competitions, as well as a performance at various events is an integral and significant part of the life of any student, but such activities are not amenable to the correct assessment from the educational institution, despite the fact that this is the most striking indicator of the student of the student, then There is a communication skills and work in the team. Professional skill, Hard-Skills, is developing in the classroom, evaluated by teachers and highly quoted by employers. Of course, Hard-Skills plays a large role in the work, but the effectiveness of a specialist who does not know how to interact with colleagues will be lower than a person with slightly less professional competencies, but developed emotional intelligence. Nevertheless, employers have nowhere to take data on the student Soft-Skills, since in most Russian universities, measurement of this indicator does not pay due attention. In view of the current situation, a “student activity system has been created”, with the help of which all extracurricular activities of the Institute of Computing Mathematics and Information Technologies of the Kazan Federal University are carried out. This system fully operates not only with the tasks of simplifying the workflow, but also an assessment of the student’s social skills. There are various areas of extracurricular activities at the Institute, and each develops certain skills: the primary trade union organism of students develops the ability to protect their own rights and strengthens leadership qualities; "Media Center" allows the student to plunge into the world of journalism and makes it possible to make contact with interesting personalities; Volunteers of the "Volunteer Center" conduct subbotniks and trips to the houses of sponsored veterans; Participation in the cultural activity of the instiUT dips the creative skills and the ability to solutions of pale situations in non -standard methods; participants in the "sports sector" learn to work in the team; Scientific and Olympiad activity is A.A. Nasrov, A.V. Dmiterchuk, Sh.R. Sabitov 131 with an indicator of the presence of the ability to solve the problems of the educational program. The student can prove himself with participation in the event as a volunteer, or he can get patronage over the direction and organize everything himself. Any such activity is evaluated and encouraged in accordance with the regulatory documents of the KFU, so the student will not only receive an objective assessment of abilities, but also a reward for his efforts and results. Let us give an example, a 3rd year student Mikhail during the semester participated in many events related to trade union and scientific activities. For this, he will receive 5 additional points for each exam conducted in the current semester. When applying for a job, the same data will put him much higher than other applicants, because the employer already has an idea of ​​Michael's skills and knows that he can be expected from him what position he will succeed and what tasks he will cope with. Thus, an active student receives a parish while studying at the university and when applying for a job. Communication skills are difficult to measure with familiar tests, for an objective assessment of this activity, it is necessary to systematically collect and analyze the results within the deadline, and only then draw a conclusion that will allow the student to get all available tricks. Literature 1. Kazan Federal University Rules for the point-rating system for assessing knowledge of students in the Federal State Autonomous Educational Institution of Higher Education "Kazan (Volga) Federal University", 2015 2. Ivonina A.I., Chulanova O. I., Davletshin Yu. M. Modern areas of theoretical and methodological developments in the field of management: the role of Soft-Skills and Hard Skills in the professional and career development of employees // Internet magazine "Scientific"-2017-T. 9-No. 1 3. Chulanova O. L. Kom