) Optimization of the shape of an arc flowing near the horizontal screen when designing wing profiles important is the task of finding a form of a profile that provides optimal aerodynamic characteristics. One of the tasks of this kind is the task of determining the wing profile with maximum lifting force. The solution to this problem for the handle of a given length and limited curvature was obtained by M. A. Lavrentiev [1]. The result of such optimization is a circumference. The work is dedicated to the numerical solution of the problem of Lavrentiev for arches near the horizontal screen. The task is reduced to the search for a control function that delivers extremum to the target functionality when limiting the curvature of an arc. By approaching the control function, a segment of the steppe 152, the task from infinitely is converted into finite, which is solved in numerically using the gradient method of conditional optimization. As a result of the numerical sale, arches of a circle with constant curvature were obtained. The work was supported by the RFFF (projects 99-01–00365, 99-01-04029), the program of "Universities of Russia" and the ROCR Foundation of the Academy of Sciences. L and T R A T R A 1. Lavrentiev M.A. On one extreme task in theo Rii of the Wing of the Airplane // Tr. TsAGI. - 1934. - Issue. 155. - 41 p. V. L. Leontyev, D. A. Yashin (Ulyanovsk) Orthogonal finite functions are introduced and examined by three -dimensional orthogonal finite functions associated with nets consisting of tetrahedron, and which are a generalization of functions from [1]. The three -dimensional region of V into the VIJKM tetrahedron and additional breakdown of each tetrahedron of the main grid is performed. Points Pijk, Pijm, Pikm intersecting of the median of its faces and the Pijkm point of intersection of lines connecting the peaks Pi, Pj, PK, PM tetrahedron and the intersection of the median of the opposite faces. On the ribs containing the PI node, points Pij, Pji, Pik, PKI, PIM, PMI are introduced, dividing them into three equal parts. The introduced points allow you to divide the tetrahedron into thirty -six auxiliary tetrahedron. The function is determined by the function ∗ (x, y, z, α), depending on the parameter α, the piece-line for each of the three arguments and is continuous in the aggregate of the VIJKM areas, which have a common pertle PI. It has the following values: 1 - in the node Pi, 0 - in the nodes pj, pk, pm, (1+α) - at the points Pij, pik, pim, (−α) - at the points pji, pki, pmi, 1/ 3 - at the points Pijk, Pijm, Pikm, 1/4 - at the Pijkm point. The final carrier of the finite function ∗ is the totality of tetrahedron with the common peak PI. The condition of orthogonality of the basic functions corresponding to the nodes of the grid gives two values ​​of the parameter α = 2 (−1 ± √ 7) /3. 153