) Orthogonal finite functions are introduced and examined by three -dimensional orthogonal finite functions associated with nets consisting of tetrahedron, and which are a generalization of functions from [1]. The three -dimensional region of V into the VIJKM tetrahedron and additional breakdown of each tetrahedron of the main grid is performed. Points Pijk, Pijm, Pikm intersecting of the median of its faces and the Pijkm point of intersection of lines connecting the peaks Pi, Pj, PK, PM tetrahedron and the intersection of the median of the opposite faces. On the ribs containing the PI node, points Pij, Pji, Pik, PKI, PIM, PMI are introduced, dividing them into three equal parts. The introduced points allow you to divide the tetrahedron into thirty -six auxiliary tetrahedron. The function is determined by the function ∗ (x, y, z, α), depending on the parameter α, the piece-line for each of the three arguments and is continuous in the aggregate of the VIJKM areas, which have a common pertle PI. It has the following values: 1 - in the node Pi, 0 - in the nodes pj, pk, pm, (1+α) - at the points Pij, pik, pim, (−α) - at the points pji, pki, pmi, 1/ 3 - at the points Pijk, Pijm, Pikm, 1/4 - at the Pijkm point. The final carrier of the finite function ∗ is the totality of tetrahedron with the common peak PI. The condition of orthogonality of the basic functions corresponding to the nodes of the grid gives two values ​​of the parameter α = 2 (−1 ± √ 7) /3. 153, we denote through W 1, H2 the linear subspace of the functions ∗i, W 1, H 2 ⊂ C (0) (V̄) ∩W 12 (V). Here UI is the constant coefficients of linear combinations UH (UH ∈ W 1, H2) associated with a mesh containing n nodes, C (k) (V̄) - spaces of continuous functions, W K2 (V) - Sobolev spaces. The theorem has been proven. If u ∈W 22 (v) ∩ c (1) (v̄), then there is a function uh ∈W 1, h2, such that ∥∥ u - uh ∥∥ w 02 (v) ≤ c1h2 ‖u‖ 2 22 ( V) + C2H SIN4ϑ0 ∑ | P | = 1 ‖DPU‖ C (0) (V̄), where H is the maximum length of the rib of the grid tetrahedron, ϑ0 is the minimum of the corners of all the triangles of the grid. Permanent C1, C2 do not depend on the parameters of the grid and on the function U. The constant C2 depends on the values ​​of the parameter α, which determines the orthogonality of the functions. L and T R A T R A 1. Leontyev V. L., Lukashanets N. Ch. On the net bases of the oral finite functions // ZhVM and Matt. - 1999. - T. 39, No. 7. - S. 1158–1168. E.K. Lipachev (Kazan) The task of diffraction of waves on periodic structures with a deformed area proposed a method for analyzing dipchacia phenomena that occur when a flat electromagnetic wave falls on a periodic lattice [1], containing a limited area with other characteristics than the lattice. An example of such structures are lattices with a partially deformed profile (see [2]). The mathematical model is built in the form of a non -self -intended regional task for the Helmholtz equation with the conditions of Condition 154