Determining the maximum trajectories in the tasks of mechanics of aerosols. Determining the capture coefficient and aspiration coefficient is one of their important tasks of aerosol mechanics. The theoretical determination of these coefficients is reduced to calculating the limiting paths of aerosol particles. The task of calculating the coefficient of the capture of particles with an obstacle under the maximum trajectory means the extreme path of the particle, which is in contact with the obstacle. Far from the obstacle or from the sampler in the unstable stream of gas of particles and gas velocity are accepted equal and using the calculations of trajectories with different initial coordinates, the maximum trajectory is determined by iterations. In a mathematical plan, the task boils down to a multiple solution to the problem of Koshi for the system of ordinary differential equations, which are equations of particle movement. In flat tasks, as a rule, one or two limiting trajectories are calculated, the initial coordinates of which allow you to determine the capture and aspiration coefficients. In the case of a spatial-nomineal task, it is necessary to determine the pipe of the limit trajectories and the cross-sectional area of ​​this tube in the uninocated zone. The number of trajectories calculated in this case increases significantly. Therefore, often, when solving spatial problems, they are limited to the search for a small number of trajectories and the area of ​​the particle capture zone in the uninocated course is approximated by any curve. In this work, a new effective approach is proposed, based on the information of the task of determining the marginal trajectories to the regional task. The resulting marginal problem is solved using the final difference method. Using the proposed method, studies of the capture of the aerosol particles were carried out by the sphere in the potential stream of gas and the aspiration coefficient in the sampler with a spherical head when taking into account the effect of gravity. The speed of the current environment at the sphere of the sphere is set by the known distribution. The equations of the movement of non -current -appropriate aerosol particles in the assumption of the Stake law, resistance are recorded in a dimensionless form. The task of determining the marginal trajectory is formulated as a marginal task for the final interval for an independent variable time. In 65 quality conditions on the left end of the segment far from the sphere, the equality of the speeds of the bearing medium and particle is taken. For one of the components of the speed of the particle, the settlement speed is added under the influence of gravity. At the right end of the interval, the coordinates of the particle are connected by the condition that the trajectory is a tangent to the sphere in a certain section. The method of capture coefficients for the case of the cylinder and the sphere in the potential stream of gas, calculated in the absence of gravity, with well -known calculated data, was carried out as a test of the method. Studies of the dependence of the sector capture coefficient were carried out on the number of Stox at different values ​​of the stationary velocity of the settlement. The dependencies of the aspiration coefficient in the case of an idealized spherical sampler (point runoff in the field) from the number of Stox and the ratio of the speed of the run -out stream to the speed of aspiration were also studied. The proposed method showed high efficiency and can be used to determine the limiting trajectories when obstructing obstacles or in aspiration of aerosol. The work was supported by the RFFF (project 99-01-00-169) and the Foundation of R&D Academy of Sciences of the Republic of Tatarstan. A.F. Galimanov (Kazan) The close solution of fractional -integral equations is a wide class of practical tasks to fractional -integral equations with the fractional integral of Riman -Liwill (see, e.g., [1]) (Iαa +Сory) (t) + + b∫ a h (t, τ) onic (τ) dτ = f (t), 0 ≤ α <1, t ∈ [a, b], (1) where (iαa+ng) (t) = 1 γ (α ) X∫ a ∗ (t) (x - t) 1 --α dt, x> a. (2) 66