) The use of the combined regional problem of Riman-Gilbert to solve one mixed problem of the theory of elasticity considers the plane composed of two different in the elastic properties of isotropic half-fruits. On the line of their connection, cracks are located [aj, bj] and completely exfoliated thin, hard acute -angle inclusions [CK, DK], the shores of 204 are in a state of sliding contact with half -fruits. A flat deformed state is considered with the most common external loads attached to the banks of cracks, inclusions and infinity. With the help of Kolosov-Mushelishvili formulas, modified in relation to a piece-a-fat plane, the problem boils down to solving the following two combined regional tasks of Riman-Gilbert: in the plane with incisions along the segments [AJ, BJ] and [CK, DK] Find a piece F1 (Z), F2 (Z), which are on the shores of cuts [ck, dk] have specified imaginary parts IMF ± 1.2 (t) = f ± 1.2 (t), on segments [aj, bj] satisfy the regional conditions f+1 (t) - f -1 (t) = 2g1 (t), f+2 (t)+mf - 2 (t) = 2g2 (t), m> 0, at the ends of the incisions, features of the integrated nature are allowed And at infinity they have a given behavior. Problem solutions are built by information to the symmetry to the equivalent regional tasks of Riemann on the riman surface of the function w = √ (z - c1) (z - d1) (z - c2) (z - d2) ... (z - cn) (z) (z) (z) (z) - DN). In the case of only one inclusion of the solution of these problems are clearly in the quadrature through elementary functions, and in the case of more than one inclusion of the solution of problems, they are expressed through the functionality of the Riman surface. At the same time, it is preliminary to solve the problem of the Jacobi circulation of Abel integrals on the Riman surface. The case of a homogeneous task, cases of single crack and single inclusion are considered in detail, as well as the case of the action of concentrated forces attached either to the crack or to inclusion. The mechanical parameters of the system were found and their graphs were built for all kinds of cases. The work was supported by the Russian Federation (project 01-01-00720). 205