) The method of generalized differentiation and some of its applications generalized derivative of S.L. Sobolev [1] is determined on an open set ω. In the works [2–4] it is proposed to deduct a generalized derivative at the ∂ω border depending on the values ​​of the differentiated function (or its derivative) on ∂ω. In [2], for a generalized private derivative on ∂ω, homogeneous and heterogeneous regional conditions of the conductor, natural regional conditions and periodic conditions in the direction of changes in variable differentiation are formulated. For each version of the regional conditions, integrated identities have been obtained, corresponding to a generalized private derivative on ω with the lipshit border ∂ω. In [3], determining quadratic functionality was obtained, each of which corresponds to a generalized derivative with the option of the regional conditions on ∂ω. Integral identities make it possible to calculate the close generalized private derivative of differentiated function from L2 (ω) by Petrov -Galekin, and quadratic functionality - by the method of rittz. For each linear functionality and corresponding to it determining quadratic functionality, a relationship is established, which is formulated in a theorem. Theorem. A generalized derivative delivers a minimum corresponding to the determining quadratic functionality. 210 examines examples of the application of generalized differentiation in the algorithm for modeling aerodynamic surfaces of the aircraft. L and T R A T R A 1. Sobolev S. L. Some applications for functional analysis in mathematical physics. - M.: Nauka, 1988 .-- 336 p. 2. Snigirev V.F. The numerical receipt of the derivative of the integral identity for a generalized weak derivative // ​​Inf. technology. - 2000. - No. 4. - P. 24–29, 57. 3. Snigirev V.F. Application of generalized numerical differentiation to solve the problem of mathematical modeling of arbitrary aerodynamic surfaces // Bulletin of KSTU named after A.N. Tupolev. - 2000. - No 2. - P. 3–9. 4. Snigirev V.F. Quadratic and linear functionals corresponding to a generalized derivative // ​​Tr. Matem. center named after N.I. Lobachevsky. T. 5. Actual problems with mat. and fur. Mater. international. scientific. Conf. (Kazan, October 1-3, 2000). - Kazan: Unipress, 2000. - S. 293–295. D. G. Sokol (Krasnodar) on the resolution of the integral equation of Voltairer in the space of asymptotically ω -periodic, as the functions of the admissions of the pair of spaces asymmptotically ω - periodic ones are studied as the functions for equation x (t) = t∫ 0 k (t, s) are studied x (s) ds + f (t), (1) where the core is K (t, s) is determined everywhere in the area − fine <s ≤ t <mm and satisfies the conditions [1]: 1. K (t + ω, s + ω) = k (t, s) −urb <S ≤ t <mm; 211