) The movement of the wing profile with a blow of the reactive stream b of the limitless stream and near the flat screen proposes a method of calculating the aerodynamic characteristics of the wing profile, which is progressing with a constant speed in the limitless stream or near the flat screen. Through the slot of the final dimensions on the upper surface of the profile, a reactive jet is produced. Similarly, the work [1] applies an approach based on the introduction of a fictitious stream under the screen. The gap is modeled by an infinite -faced circular channel. A model of an ideal inconspicuous liquid is used, density and complete pressure of a blowing jet and an external flow are different, as a result of which there is a rupture of tangent components of the speed on the flow lines. The viscosity of the liquid is accounting for the border layer model. The task is reduced to the system of nonlinear integrated equations relative to the angles of inclination of the tangent to the lines of the section and jumps of the tangent components of the speed and is solved by the iterative method. A series of calculations of the modified Zhukovsky profiles with a gap with various parameters of curvature, profile thickness, gap positions, values ​​of the impulse of a blown stream and detachments of the posterior edge of the profile from the screen were carried out. Calculations demonstrate the effectiveness of a tangential jester of a slit stream. It is noted that the screen increases the positive effect of blowing a jet stream on the aerodynamic characteristics of the profile. L and Tr. T R A 1. Galyautdinov M.I., Maklakov D.V. Movement of the wing profile near the flat screen // News of universities. Aviation equipment. - 1999. - No. 4. - C. 40–43. V.E. Gate (Chelyabinsk) Classification of polynomas with the smallest integral norm according to their four senior coefficients, let the material of Polin (xn + 4 + a1xn ​​+ 3 + a2x n + 2 + a3xn + 1 + a4xn +. . . + an+ 4 has the smallest norm of 70