) Integral equations of the periodic problem of connecting the elastic plates into the package along the curves considered the task of determining the stress state of the package of thin elastic plates E1, E2, ... E, interconnected along the periodic system of the open curves of Lyapunov L. The plates occupy the entire complex plane and stretch out with efforts, they are extended. applied to them at infinity. Mathematically the task is to find 2n of the piece-head-somerfic functions φk (z), ψk (z) with a line of rupture l according to the specified boundary conditions that express the equality of displacements and the equilibrium of the line of the line L. function φk (z) are periodic, and ψk (z) ) Satisfy the condition ψk (z + t0) = ψk (z) –t0φ′k (z), where T0 is the location of the curves. At the ends of the strip of periods 0 ≤ re (z) ≤ t0, the functions φk (z), ψk (z) have behavior determined by the specified efforts of the NU fine, and at the ends of the connection line they can have features of the integrated nature. Based on the well -known integral representations of the computers 112 of the lex potentials φk (Z), ψk (Z) from the regional conditions of the problem, the system of singular integral equations with additional conditions is obtained. We investigated the resolution of this system in the general case. By matrix transformations, it is reduced to individual equations and their connection is established with the integral equation of the second main periodic task of the theory of elasticity for a separate plate. In the case of connecting the plates into the package along the periodic system of collinear segments, this problem is clearly solved by the method of the periodic regional problem of Riman [1]-[3]. The work was supported by the Russian Federation (project 01-01-00720). L and T R A T R A 1. Sylvestrov V.V., Ivanov I. A. The stretching of two elastic plates connected to each other along the periodic system of segments // Izv. Engineering technologist. Acad. Chuvash. Rep. - 1998. - No 1-2. - S. 42–46. 2. Ivanov I. A. The interaction of two elastic plates connected along the periodic number of segments // Mathematical modeling and regional tasks. Tr. 10th inter-university. Conf. - Cheboksary, 2000. - Part 1. - 2000. - S. 51–54. 3. Sylvestrov V.V., Ivanov I. A. Connection of elastic plates into a package along the periodic system of segments // Graff. fur. and tech. physical. (in the press). L. A. Ignatkin (Samara) One task for the equation of vibration of the string we consider the equation uxy = 0 on the set H = h+ ∪h - where h+ = {(x, y) | 0 <x <y <h}, 113