Variation measures in the theory of integral Henstoka method in the theory of integral allows you to describe a wide class of generalized integrals in terms of variation, regarding this differential basis, generated by the function of the interval. In Henstok theory, the differential basis B is defined as a family filtering to include {β} of the subset of the Descartes work J × Rn, where J is a lot of intervals in RN. For the function of the interval wor, for each element β Basis B and for the set E ⊂ rn, the β-version of the function wor on e: var (β, onic, e) = sup ∑ | onic (i) | where the amount is distributed to the set of non-disclosure is determined intervals I, for which (i, x) ∈ β and X ∈ E, and SUP is taken in all 207 such sets. The value of V accord β edb var (β, onic, e) is called the variational measure of the set E relative to the basis of the function ffic ffic. It is easy to check that V accord is a metric outer measure. The concept of a variation measure allows the following descriptive characteristic of the uncertain integral of Henstok regarding some bases: the additive function of the interval f is an uncertain integral of Henstok regarding the Basis B, and only when the corresponding variation measure generated by the function F is absolutely continuous regarding the measure of the Lebeg. In this case, the differentiation of function F follows from absolute continuity. From this point of view, a wide class of bases is considered in [1]. Among the new results in this direction, we note the result regarding the approximative integral of Henstok (see [2]). The work was supported by the RFFIF (projects 99-01-00355, 00-15-96143) and grant of the Institute of Mathematics of the city of Bydgosh (Inst. Mat. Bydgoszcz, Poland). L and T R A T R A 1. Bongorno B., Di Piazza L., Skvortsov V. A. Anal. Appl., In print. 2. Skvortsov V.A., Blutovski P.O. The variation of the variation of a variational, determined by an approximative differential basis // Bulletin of Moscow State University. - Ser. Mat. Fur., In print. V.F. Snigirev (Kazan) variant of a two -dimensional functional splan for interpoing a function known in the arbitrarily located nodes of a two -dimensional mesh, two -dimensional functional splashes are most effective [1–4]. Paid at the same time Yav 208