) The wing profile in the stream of a two -layer weighty fluid in the presence of a free surface and bottom in the framework of the theory of waves of low amplitude is examined by the flow of the contour with a two -layer stream of a weighty fluid. The upper layer of the liquid is limited by the free surface, and the bottom is 128 with a horizontal bottom. The layers have different density and flow rate. To solve the problem, the method of modeling the boundaries of the features [1] is used, which allows you to accurately satisfy the boundary condition on the circuit. The location of the circuit above and under the line of liquid section is considered. In both cases, using the conditions on the boundaries of the Service section, the problem of the problem is reduced to solving systems of integro-radical singular equations. After the application of special reception of regulatory, the systems of linear integrated equations of Fredgolm of the second kind, the solution of which was carried out numerically. The calculations were carried out to flow the circular cylinder and the wing profile above the line of the division of liquids that have a free surface, as well as for the cylinder and profile located under the line of liquid section in the presence of a bottom. The influence of the number of Frud, the ratio of flow velocities, the angle of attack and the proximity of the boundaries of the section on the hydrodynamic characteristics of the profile have been studied. Forms of superficial and internal waves were obtained. The work was supported by the RFFF (projects 99-01-00169, 99-01-00173) and the program “Universities of Russia”. L and T R A T R A 1. Filippov S. I. The flow of an underwater wing profile with a two -layer stream of weighty fluid // Izv. universities. Aviation equipment. - 2000. - No 3. - P. 34–45. A.P. Karmazin (Surgut) Rimanova The structure of uniform areas using methods of the theory of the premiums developed by the author based on the internal metrics of the areas of the Euclidean space, the boundary properties of the areas of John and uniform regions were studied. Classes of these areas are widely used in the theory of display and in many applications. 129