) Analytical functions with multiple poles at infinity. Their application in hydrodynamics considers the external marginal task of the Neumann (or Dirichle) for the analytical function W (Z) with the main part F (Z) = N∑ N = 1 AN Zn. (1) In general, it can also have a logarithmic feature. Similar tasks arise in hydrodynamics when considering the flow of bodies with an indignant flow [1]. The solution is found in a parametric form by displaying the area under consideration to the appearance of the circle of a single radius in the auxiliary plane ζ: w (ζ) = n∑ n = 1 (bnζ n + bn ζn) + γ 2πi ln ζ. (2) If the displaying function Z = F (ζ), then BN coefficients can be determined from (1) by isolating the main part of the function F (F (ζ)). The general decision (2), as in the theory of wing profiles, is ambiguous, therefore, a critical point should be set for certainty. In particular, if one of the critical points coincides with the point ζ = 1, then the speed circulation γ = −2πi n∑ n = 1 n (Bn −bn). (3) The work also proposes a numerical algorithm based on a generalized integral equation of Green [1] and the method of boundary elements. As an illustration, Zhukovsky’s profile in a stream was considered, outraged by the presence of a circular cylinder, the radius of which is much larger than the profile chord. 73 compared the analytical solution with the numerical, as well as with the results of calculating the full task of the flow of the circular cylinder and profile. LIDENTENTS A 1. Terentyev A. G. Generalization of the Green formula and use in numerical hydrodynamics. Tr. Mezh. scientific. Conf. "Modeling, calculations, design in conditions of uncertainty - 2000". -Ufa: Publishing House of UV. state. Aviation. University, 2000.-S. 82–89. A. A. Golubev (Tver) on the local properties of harmonic display, let D - area of ​​the complex plane C, W = F (Z): D → C - harmonic display. The point z0 ∈ D is called a special point of display f if in any its surroundings F is not bunctional [1]. A necessary and sufficient condition for the presence of features at point Z0 is the appeal to the JF JF (Z) = | fz | 2– | fz̄ | 2 display f at this point. The isolated zero of Jacobian is answered by the branching points - special points of the unstable type. In the theory of disasters, stable features of smooth display of Euclidean spaces are classified. In the two -dimensional case, only two types of stable features are conveyed - the folding points and the assembly point. Of particular complexity is a description of the behavior of non -overgrown harmonic display (for such Displays JF is not equal to zero) in the vicinity of the uninsulated zero of Jacobian. It is proposed different from [1] a method based on the properties of the Hopf differential pper СDZ 2 = fzfzdz2, associated with a harmonic display f. The zero JF JF JF JFs, unpertured into the points of JF, are analytical curves and are called common folds of display f. Orthogonal trajectory of the holomorphic quadratically 74