) Construction of the equation of the dynamics of a given structure The task of constructing systems of differential equations, the solutions of which would have the indicated properties, has an ambiguous solution. The analytical expression of the properties of solutions can be different. The general structure of systems of differential equations, the first or private integrals of which are set, is known. The right parts of the desired system contain arbitrary functions, the choice of which can be controlled by the direction of movement in the variety determined by the specified integrals, and in its environs. This allows us to ensure the stability of the variety, the required distribution of the trajectory family in this area, the necessary accuracy of the execution of the equations of relations with a numerical solution and other properties. The reverse tasks of dynamics are also reduced to the construction of systems of differential equations. Modern setting of reverse tasks of dynamics involves constructing the equations of the movement of the system in one form or another. According to the well -known structure of the system of differential equations, the corresponding functionality is determined, which takes stationary value on the solutions of the system. To compile the equations of the movement of the required structure that would describe movements with given properties, successfully use the methods for building differentials 170 cylical equations, with their subsequent bringing to a certain form - the equations of Lagrange, Hamilton, Birkhof and other well -known equations of analytical mechanics. The report sets out the solution to the problem of compiling the equations of the dynamics of the required structures that allow specified integrals. A system of differential equations with software connections in the form of Lagrange equations is built. The introduction of software relations equations allows you to build equations with private integrates that remain stable in a numerical solution. The reactions of the connections corresponding to this private integrates are determined. The proposed methods are illustrated on the solutions of some applied problems. The work was supported by the Ministry of Defense of the Russian Federation (project 04.01.63). L and T R A 1. Mukharlyamov R. G. On the equations of kinematics and the dynamics of non -free mechanical systems // Mechanics of the solid. - 2000. - Issue. 30. - NAS of Ukraine, Donetsk. - S. 68–79. 2. Santilli R. M. Foundation of Theoretical Mechanics. 1-the Inverse Problem in Newtonian Mechanics. - New York, 1978. - 265 p. E. A. Nazirova (Ufa) about the indexes of the defect of the singular differential operators of one of the tasks of the spectral theory of the singular differential operators is the task of studying the indices of the defect of the minimum differential operator generated in L2 [0, ∞) with a self -consolidated expression of the type: LY = (−1) ny2n + n - 1∑ k = 0 (−1) k (y (k) pn -k (x)) (k), depending on the behavior of its coefficients PK (x), k = 1, n (see bibliography In [1] and [2]). One of the method of studying the defect indices is obtaining and analysis at x → ger 171