The approximation of surfaces in a three-dimensional space following E.P. Dolzhenko, we will call the quasipolinom of order k in the n-dimensional Euclidean space (n ≥ 3) the function of the species PN (x) = (k∑ i = 1-XI | 2-N)- 1, where {XI} Ki = 1 is an arbitrary set of points in RN, X - the argument of the function, | X - Xi | - Euclidean distance between points X and XI. The expression in brackets is the sum of shifts of the fundamental solution of the Laplace equation in RN. It can be shown that the zeros of the gradient of the quasipolinoma lie in the convex membrane of the zero quasiolinoma. Zero of the quadiolinom of Chebyshev - that is, a quasiolinom, which implements a minimum of uniform norm on a given compact k ⊂ rn among all quasiolinomas of order k - lie in the convex shell of compact K. As you can see, the situation is the same as in the case of ordinary polynomists of a comprehensive variable Z . 39 Recall that the Hausdorf distance between the compacts K1 and K2 is called the value H (K1, K2): = Inf {ε> 0: K1 ⊂ uε (k2), k2 ⊂ uε (k1)}, where uε- ε- The surroundings of the compact KJ, J = 1, 2. According to D. Gilbert’s theorem, there are many on the plane, consisting of the final number of arbitrary mutually external smooth curves of Zhordan, you can approximate with any accuracy in the metric of Hausdorf Lemniscat, i.e. lines of the level of polynoma modules from a complex alternating z. A similar result is correct in the multidimensional material space. Theorem. Let the many s ⊂ rn consists of such mutually external smooth closed surfaces S1 ,. . . , SK, that the distance between any two surfaces SI is more than 2δ, where Δ = const> 0. Then there is a level of the level of some quasiolinoma γ = {x: p (x) = µ}, which satisfies the conditions: 1) γ consists of K mutually external components, each of which contains exactly one surface SJ inside; 2) h (γ, s) <δ. Consequence. For any compact k ⊂ rn and any ε> 0 there is such a quasiolin and such a surface of the level γ that h (γ, k) <ε. In conclusion, I want to express sincere gratitude to Professor E.P. Dolzhenko for the leadership of my scientific work. The work was supported by Grant RFFIF (project 99-01-00119). E. I. Beszhnaya (Yaroslavl) The theorem of correction for Helder's space considers the classical task of correcting the function from the gelder space to many low measures to increase its smoothness. Of the previous works on this 40