) The surfaces of the Big-riman over the Big-Disk are studied by algebraic covers of the Big Disk-locally compact factorization ∆ = g × [0, 1)/g × {0} cylinder g × [0, 1), where G = γ̂ is compact Ableva A group arising as a group of characters of the subgroup γ ⊂ rdiscr. The latter, as you know, is isomorphically parametrilized by the group of characters ĝ Group G: ĝ = {χa} aives. Each character is χa, a ≥ 0, you can continuously continue on ∆, assuming χa (αr) = χA (α) Ra, α ∈ G, R ∈ [0, 1). The extreme case of this scheme, when γ = rdiscr is the compacting of the boron, gave the name to the indicated coverage, closely related to the riman surfaces due to the presence of a dense complex structure in ∆ everywhere, which is generated by immersion into G of the R̂eUCL group, which turns G into the solenoid. (It is significant that the “opposite” case of the Borovsky case γ = z leads to ∆ = c, that is, to the riman surfaces itself.) The construction of analytical and algebraic structures on the Bigdisa is based on the existence of the algebra of Freche O (∆), the elements of which are generalized analytical Functions, 85 i.e. Functions continuously on ∆ functions that are localized by linear combinations of the functions χA, and ≥ 0. In particular, subtle sets in ∆, i.e. The closed subset of the zero-many functions from O (∆), provide the surfaces of the Rieman-Brown “branches of branching”. Definition. The topological space X is called the surface of the Bora-Riman over the Big Disk, if there are a thin multitude of F ⊂ ∆ and continuous surge p: x → ∆, such that the narrowing p for x \ p-1 (f) is an inseparable of the end of the end of the same. The surfaces of Bora-Riman naturally arise when studying the question of resolving algebraic equations over the algebra of analytical almost periodic functions (see [1]-[3]). The continuation of this topic is the following results. Theorem 1. Let Polin Polin p (xn) = xn + f1xn -1 + ... + fn are locally quite quite given over the space of continuous functions to ∆. Then this Polin is completely given over O (∆). The surface of Bora-Riman, generated by Polynoma P (X), is a disjunct association of Big Discis. Theorem 2. If the discriminant of the polynoma p (x) is different from zero on the multitude ∆ \ (g × {0}), then the surface of the surface of the surface of the surface generated by some polynoma of the species xn-χa, where n = deg generated. P. Consequence. Let the group γ allow division by n!. If Polin P (X) degree N over O (∆) is locally quite given, then the surface of the boron-riman determined by it can be “inflated” to the disjunctic combination of the final number of big-disks. L and T R A T R A 1. BOHR H., Flanders D. A. Algebraic Equations with Almost Periodic CoEFFICIENTS. -Kobenhavn, 1937. 2. Levitan B. M. Almost-periodic functions. - M.: State Texidat, 1953. - 396 p. 86 3. Grigorian S. A., Gumerov R. N., Kazantsev A. V. Group Structure in Finite Coverings of Compact Solenoid Groups // Lobachevskij J. Math. - 2000. - V. 6. - P. 39–46. S. A. Grigoryan, R. N. Gumerov (Kazan) The limits of function in the categories of coverage and covering groups in algebraic topology are well known for the following fact. If P: X → G is the cover of a linearly coherent and local linearly connected group G of a linearly coherent space X, then in X there is a group structure that turns P into the homomorphism of groups [1; Theorem 79]. It turns out that for the endless cover of a compact coherent group with a coherent covering space, this theorem is also fair. This result is based on the fact mentioned above and the theorem 1 formulated below, which, speaking of the inconspicuous, claims that any N-lord cover of this group is approximated by the n-lis covers of smooth groups. Let's move on to the exact wording. Let N-COV be a category, the objects of which are the N-lute covers of compact coherent groups with compact connected connecting spaces. Morphism between the two objects p: x → g and Q: Y → H of this category we define as pair (F: x → Y, h: g → h), consisting of continuous display and continuous homomorphism, such that Q ° F = H ® p. The composition of morphisms is determined in a standard way, as in the category of morphisms from the arbitrary category. Through N-Cov Diff, we denote the subcategory in n-cov, consisting of coverage of groups, or, in other words, subcategoria of groups without small subgroups [2]. Theorem 1. For each object p ∈ N-COV, there is a controversial function F: γP → N-COV from the category of a directed set γP, such that P is a projective limit F in N-COV and F accepts the values ​​of N-COV DIFF. 87