) Rimanova The structure of uniform areas using the methods of the theory of the premiums developed by the author based on the internal metrics of the areas of the Euclidean space, the boundary properties of the areas of John and uniform areas were studied. Classes of these areas are widely used in the theory of display and in many applications. 129 rays are the following results. Theorem 1. Home-momanphic ball in the John of the N-Mortal Euclidean space has the following properties: it is limited, pre-compound on many of its simple premiums built on the basis of Riemann metric, and replenishment by this metric is compactly compactly, it is limited at the border and cannot have on the border and cannot have on the border The border of zero inner corners. In particular, if the region is internally uniform and limited, then it is the area of ​​John. In the flat case, John’s single -legged area necessarily has a hidden border. Theorem 2. Let the Homeomorphic Ball the area is limited and uniform. Then it, in addition to the properties listed in theorem, is still locally liabilities and greatly R-perishable on the border. In a flat case, a single -legged uniform region is always Zordanov, has a hidden border and cannot have zero peaks directed in or outside on the border. In the case of flat areas, the following functional characteristic of the classes of the areas under consideration takes place. The theorem 3. The class of flat single -link areas of John coincides with the class of regions, quasi -amometrically (in the metric of Riemann) equivalent circles. The subclass of this class, consisting of areas, which are also limited and uniform, coincides with the class of areas, bilipshitsevo (in Euclidean metric) equivalent circles. L.V. Kartasheva, T. N. Radchenko (Rostov-on-Don) The regional task of Riemann in the event of the degeneration of the symbol in the space of generalized functions on the segment of the actual axis with the main space of SM, n is the lines of functions ng (t), 130