Variation reverse marginal tasks of aerohydrodynamics for double areas is one of the approaches to solving flat tasks of optimal aerodynamic design is based on the geometric theory of the functions of a complex alternating (see [1]). In this case, the integral representation of the solution has the form Z (ζ) = (AP) (ζ), ζ ∈ Gζ, where the function Z (ζ) displays the cavalry or quasiconformno region Gζ in the auxiliary plane on the fluid or gas course, a - integral The operator, and the function P is determined by the initial data and satisfies a number of restrictions. The geometric characteristics of the desired circuit (image ∂gζ when displayed Z (ζ)) are determined by the view of the operator A and restrictions on p. The main idea of ​​this study is to set a fixed set of control functions P on which the operator A is determined, and in the expression of optimized characteristics also in the “language” of the control language, taking into account additional restrictions that reflect the physical meaning of the task. This approach is implemented when solving a number of problems, one of which is the following problem. In the physical plane z = x + iy (Fig. 1) is smooth (behind the key, possibly the point of flowing stream b with the outer angle επ, 1 ≤ ε ≤ 2) the impermeable LZ contour is smoothly streamlined near the rectilinear screen of the ideal incompressible liquid from The speed of Vives at infinity, h is the clearance (distance from the rear edge b profile to the screen). It is required to find the form of LZ, the maximizing coefficient of the lifting force of the profile limited by this contour, provided that the maximum speed on the circuit is set. The two -sequence of the course of the course significantly complicates the construction of the operator A and the conditions for the resolving of the task (two integral equations - the conditions of isolation of LZ and one integral equality - the conditions for the task of Vinger). When constructing the operator A, the method [2] is used, the upper half -fluidity of the cutout in the form of a single circle with the center at point AI, A> is used as Gζ. Optimization parameter. Considering 101 Renes Various options for the task: 10. Fixed parameters A and β (β - theoretical angle of attack), the value H is determined; 20. The parameters β and H are fixed, the value A is determined; 30. The size H is set, β is an optimization parameter. 102. Rice. 1 coordinates of the desired circuit were calculated by the formula Z (ζ) = ∫ e --χ (ζ, β) uε−12 (ζ, β) dζ, u2 (ζ) = ger∏ n = 1 (ζ - ζn2) - (ζ ζ ζ ζ ζ ζ ζ ζ ζ ζ ζ ζ ζ ζ ζ ζ ζ ζ ζ ζ ζ ζ ζ ζ ζ ζ ζ ζ ζ ζ ζ ζ ζ ζ ζ ζ ζ ζ ζ ζ ζ ζn2) (ζ - ζna) (ζ - ζna), ζn2 and ζ n A are connected by recurrent formulas ζ n + 1 2 = ai + (ζ n 2 + ai) −1, ζn + 1a = ai + (ζna + ai) - one. The analytical function χ (ζ) does not have features in Gζ and is represented by a near Loran χ (ζ) = φ∑ k = 1 [ak + ibk (ζ - ia) k - 1 + ak - ibk (ζ + ia) k - 1] where the control parameters AK, BK (K ≥ 1) should ensure the fulfillment of the above conditions of resolution. With numerical optimization, they were limited to the final number of members of this series (no more than 20). AK, BK coefficients during fixed A and β were found from the conditions for minimizing the perimeter of the desired circuit, which corresponds to the maximization of the lifting force coefficient for limitless flow, as well as under the conditions of isolation of the desired contour and limiting the maximum speed. Computational experiments were carried out and optimized profiles were found for all these options for setting the task. The work was supported by the RFFF (projects 99-01-00173, 99-01-00365) and the program “Universities of Russia”. 103 L and T R A T R A 1. Elizarov A.M., Ilyinsky N. B., Potashev A.V. The reverse regional tasks of aerohydrodynamics. - M.: Nauka, 1994 .-- 436 p. 2. Fokin D. A. Aerodynamic design and optimi oscillation of wing profiles by the methods of reverse edge tasks. - Dis. ... doct. physical. sciences. - Kazan, 2000. - 203 p. L. B. Ermolaeva (Kazan) The oscillating functions of the method of oscilizing functions for periodic regional tasks are considered the periodic regional task Ax ≡ x (s) + b (x; s) = y (s), − least <s <mm, ( 1) x (k) (k) (0) = x (k) (2π), k = 0, m - 1, m + 1 ∈ N, (2) where y ∈ L2 (0, 2π) ≡ l2 - given, x ∈ WM2 (0, 2π) ≡ wm2 - the desired functions, B: WM2 → L2 - this linear limited (including integro -radio) operator, and there are no conditions (2). The approximate solution of the problem (1) - (2) is searched in the form of a polynoma xn (s) = n∑ k = −n αke Iks, αk ∈ C, n + 1 ∈ N, (3) the coefficients of which are determined by the method of oscilizing functions [1 ] From the system of linear algebraic equations (SLAU) n∑ k = −n arkαk = yr, r = 0, 2n, (4) ark = sr+1∫ sr a (eiks; s) ds, yr = sr+1∫ sr y (s) ds, sr = 2πr 2n + 1. (5) 104