) A variant of a two -dimensional functional splan for interpoing a function known in the arbitrarily located nodes of a two -dimensional mesh, two -dimensional functional sets are most effective [1–4]. At the same time, the local polynomial function of the two variables, minimizing the adopted speony functionality, is 208. Functional splashes and their properties depend on the accepted spet functionality. In the work [5], to obtain the splan, the energy functionality of the Bigarmonic operator A = ∆∆ with the main or natural regional conditions is adopted, depending on the known values ​​of the interpolate function and its derivatives at the border. This method of constructing the regional functionality provides the calculation of the first and second derivatives of interpoiled mesh function both in the internal and boundary nodes of the calculated net. A fairly high accuracy of calculating derivatives in the vicinity of the border is necessary to solve a number of problems (see, for example, [6]). The message gives the development of work [5]. It is shown that with homogeneous regional conditions for A, the functional splan under consideration is a generalized solution of the bigarmonic equation in the HA space. In the case of heterogeneous regional conditions for A, the task comes down to the previous one. Functional splan can also be found from the integral identity corresponding to the bigarmonic equation, by the methods of Petrov -Galekin. In this case, the methods of ritz and bubnov - gallerykin lead to the same permissive equations for calculating the functional splan coefficients. The use of generalized differentiation is considered to obtain a gram matrix of the final element of a two -dimensional functional splan. Numerical examples are given. L and T R A T R A 1. Vasilenko V.A. Plain functions: theory, algorithms, about grams. —Nolosibirsk: Science. Siberian branch, 1983. - 216 p. 2. Kolesnikov A.P. Topological methods in theory with closeness and numerical analysis. - M.: Editorian Ursss, 2001. - 376 p. 3. MARCHUK G.I. Methods of computational mathematics. –M.: Nauka, 1989 .-- 608 p. 4. Subbotin Yu. N. Plain-internal // Mat. Encyc. - M.: Sov. Encyc., 1985. - T. 5. - S. 146–147. 209 5. Snigirev V.F. Construction of a two -dimensional parametric interpolation sparrow // Issl. on the rivet. matte. - Kazan: Publishing House of KSU, 1985. - Issue. 13. - S. 119–127. 6. Kornishin M.S., Paimushin V.N., Snigirev V.F. Computational geometry in the tasks of shell mechanics. –M.: Nauka, 1989. - 208 p. V.F. Snigirev (Kazan) method of generalized differentiation and some of his applications generalized derivative of S.L. Sobolev [1] is determined on an open set ω. In the works [2–4] it is proposed to deduct a generalized derivative at the ∂ω border depending on the values ​​of the differentiated function (or its derivative) on ∂ω. In [2], for a generalized private derivative on ∂ω, homogeneous and heterogeneous regional conditions of the conductor, natural regional conditions and periodic conditions in the direction of changes in variable differentiation are formulated. For each version of the regional conditions, integrated identities have been obtained, corresponding to a generalized private derivative on ω with the lipshit border ∂ω. In [3], determining quadratic functionality was obtained, each of which corresponds to a generalized derivative with the option of the regional conditions on ∂ω. Integral identities make it possible to calculate the close generalized private derivative of differentiated function from L2 (ω) by Petrov -Galekin, and quadratic functionality - by the method of rittz. For each linear functionality and corresponding to it determining quadratic functionality, a relationship is established, which is formulated in a theorem. Theorem. A generalized derivative delivers a minimum corresponding to the determining quadratic functionality. 210