) The optimization of the border layer suction in the range of the attack angles in this work is set and solved the task of finding the optimal distribution of the suction rate of the border layer (PS) on permeable wing profiles when minimizing the CS resistance coefficient, which guarantees the uncomfortable of the profile flow in the given range of the angles of the attack. The resistance coefficient cs = cv + cq; Here CV is the resistance coefficient due to viscous friction, CQ is the coefficient equivalent to the energy costs of the suction. Solving 114 Problems was carried out numerically. To calculate the characteristics of the PS, the Eppler method was used [1], for optimization - the Hukajivas method [2], the additional condition for the unexploding of the profile streaming was taken into account when choosing the appropriate penalty function. As an example, a calculation of a PS suction on the Clarck-YH-8% profile was calculated in the assumption of the turbulence of PS. The optimal distribution of the suction speed of the PS and the position of the permeable student on the upper surface of the profile in the range of the angles of attack 4 ° <α <20 °. From the analysis of the results obtained, it follows that the PS suction is effective even when taking into account the energy costs of the suction and allows you to eliminate the separation of the PS in the entire range of attack angles. The work was supported by the RFFF (projects No. 99-01-00365, 99-0104029), the program “Universities of Russia” and the Foundation of ROCR of the Academy of Sciences of the Republic of Tatarstan. L and T R A T R A 1. EPPLER R. Airfoil Design and Data. Berlin: Springer-Sverlag, 1990.-512 p. 2. Bazaar M., Shetti K. Nonlinear programming. Theo Riya and algorithms. - M.: Mir, 1982. - 583 p. N. B. Ilyinsky, A.V. Potashev (Kazan) Mixed reverse edge task for a sliding profile of the wing of the screen of the screen is devoted to the development of a method of aerodynamic design of the wing profile, sliding with its rear edge along the straightforward screen. Part of the contour of the profile is a rectilinear segment, and on the remaining part, the distribution of speed is set depending on the arc abscissa. It is believed that the fluid in which the movement occurs is ideal and inconsistent. A mathematically considered task comes down to mixed 115